--- Page 1 ---
Article
Methodical Aspects of MCDM Based E-Commerce
Recommender System
Aleksandra B ˛ aczkiewicz1,2
 , Bartłomiej Kizielewicz3
 , Andrii Shekhovtsov 3
 , Jarosław W ˛ atróbski1
and Wojciech Sałabun3,*
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Citation: B ˛ aczkiewicz, A.;
Kizielewicz, B.; Shekhovtsov, A.;
W ˛ atróbski, J.; Sałabun, W.
Methodical Aspects of MCDM Based
E- Commerce Recommender System.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res.
2021, 16, 2192–2229. https://doi.org/
10.3390/jtaer16060122
Academic Editors:
Shib Sankar Sana, Sweety Sadhukhan
and Hyunchul Ahn
Received: 19 July 2021
Accepted: 30 August 2021
Published: 2 September 2021
Publisher’s Note:MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
1 Institute of Management, University of Szczecin, ul. Cukrowa 8, 71-004 Szczecin, Poland;
aleksandra.baczkiewicz@phd.usz.edu.pl (A.B.); jaroslaw.watrobski@usz.edu.pl (J.W.)
2 Doctoral School of University of Szczecin, ul. Mickiewicza 16, 70-383 Szczecin, Poland
3 Research Team on Intelligent Decision Support Systems, Department of Artiﬁcial Intelligence
and Applied Mathematics, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology,
West Pomeranian University of Technology in Szczecin, ul. ˙Zołnierska 49, 71-210 Szczecin, Poland;
bartlomiej-kizielewicz@zut.edu.pl (B.K.); andrii-shekhovtsov@zut.edu.pl (A.S.)
* Correspondence: wojciech.salabun@zut.edu.pl; Tel.: +48-91-449-5580
Abstract: The aim of this paper is to present the use of an innovative approach based on MCDM
methods as the main component of a consumer Decision Support System (DSS) by recommending
the most suitable products among a given set of alternatives. This system provides a reliable
recommendation to the consumer in the form of a compromise ranking constructed from the ﬁve
MCDM methods: the hybrid approach TOPSIS-COMET, COCOSO, EDAS, MAIRCA, and MABAC.
Each of the methods used contributes signiﬁcantly to the ﬁnal compromise ranking built with the
Copeland strategy. Chosen MCDM methods were combined with the objective CRITIC weighting
method, and their performance was presented on the illustrative example of choosing the most
suitable mobile phone. A sensitivity analysis involving the rw and WS correlation coefﬁcients was
performed to determine the match between the compromise ranking of the candidates and the
rankings provided by each MCDM method. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that all investigated
compromise candidate rankings show high convergence with the rankings provided by the particular
MCDM methods. Thus, the performed study proved that the proposed approach shows high
potential to be successfully used as a central component of DSS for recommending the most suitable
product. Such DSS could be a universal and future-proof solution for e-commerce sites and websites,
providing advanced product comparison capabilities in delivering a recommendation to the user as a
ﬁnal ranking of alternatives.
Keywords: e-commerce; decision support system; MCDM; consumer multi-criteria decision-making
process; compromise ranking; TOPSIS-COMET; COCOSO; EDAS; MAIRCA; MABAC
1. Introduction
At present, customer expectations of manufactured products are constantly growing.
High demands of clients often make it difﬁcult for producers to offer a product that
would satisfy them completely. As a consequence, it is increasingly difﬁcult to maintain
a stable position in the market. In free-market economies, companies are challenged to
continuously improve their products and introduce new ones that will meet customer
requirements and have a strong position in the market [1]. The need to improve service
standards and innovation in order to keep or raise a proﬁt level in an intensely competitive
marketplace is particularly relevant to online commerce and service sites. A signiﬁcant
factor in the effective realization of this goal is introducing customer enhancements that
will support their decision-making process in choosing the products they purchase. This
goal could be achieved by providing consumers with the ability to use the Decision Support
System with advanced decision-making tools, including multi-criteria decision-making
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16, 2192–2229. https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer16060122 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer

--- Page 2 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2193
methods [2]. Trading through e-commerce sites is a standard these days. These websites
also provide price and performance comparison services for products available at various
stores. These services use heuristics to detect differences between product speciﬁcations.
Customers confront difﬁculties when trying to identify the most appropriate product
given their preferences and the multiple selection criteria that the speciﬁcations represent.
Additionally, changes in salesmans’ policies and product offerings available on websites
often confuse decision-makers trying to select the most appropriate products. The ﬁeld of
multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) explores these problems [3].
The increasing sophistication of the parameters of products and devices available on
the market causes that a wide extension characterizes the decision problem related to their
purchase. It is important to take into account all selection criteria, make compromises, and
reconcile conﬂicting goals. Consumers facing the complexity of decision-making situations
need decision support methods and systems. In order to support decision-makers in
making informed and satisfactory choices, many tools have been created that are both
generally applicable and domain speciﬁc [4].
1.1. Nature, Signiﬁcance, and Commonness of the Mobile Phone Selection Problem
The continuous advancement of technology is causing people to focus their attention
increasingly on electronic gadgets. As a result, technologies are being progressed a lot
by researchers all over the world. In recent years, electronic devices, such as mobile
phones, laptops, and tablets, have become a signiﬁcant part of everyday life [ 5]. One of the
commonly purchased products today, in which many criteria need to be taken into account
in the selection, is the mobile phone. Mobile phones, today named smartphones, are mobile
electronic devices with the advantages of mobile phones and personal computers. Mobile
phones are used not only for phone calls. With powerful processors embedded and running
on multiple open platforms, smartphones play the role of multimedia devices, providing
users with many functions, such as email, web browsing, multimedia entertainment,
document processing, mobile video communication, global positioning applications, and
ﬁnancial services. It is now used to organize and entertain everyday life, such as sending
and receiving text messages, taking pictures, entertainment, browsing the Internet, reading
business emails, keeping a calendar, and making appointments [6]. It is precisely because
this device is used for different tasks that the decision-making process of selecting is so
important and laborious.
In today’s digital world, the smartphone plays a fundamental role in people’s lives
because of its mobility, ability and portability [ 7]. Currently, smartphones are used to
organize almost all our issues, both personal and professional [ 8]. The advancement of
mobile phones technology and their simplicity of usage has caused them to become an
inseparable component of the consumer’s life. Thus, owning a mobile phone is now among
the basic needs and is an integral part of people’s daily lives. There are so many activities
for which it can be used. The fact that the smartphone has become one of the global trends
is evidenced by people’s intense buying of mobile phones [9].
As a result of decreasing charges of the telecommunications services and increasing
competition in the mobile phones market due to the emergence of new manufacturers
offering top quality phones with various desirable features at lower prices to attract
customers, the number of mobile phone users is steadily increasing. Currently, smartphones
are one of the most widely available and cost-effective solutions that practically everyone
can afford. Every year new models of these phones, upgraded with additional features,
enter the market. Moreover, mobile devices are being equipped with increasingly improved
software and hardware to satisfy the expectations and requirements of the market [10]. The
described situation in the market causes an increase in the expectations of users.
An important step performed before buying a new mobile phone is to evaluate
speciﬁcations, such as features, hardware capabilities, and performance, for a particular
model. A quick analysis of speciﬁcations and prices is often not enough to accurately
identify the most suitable model from among the many alternatives [3]. The wide selection

--- Page 3 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2194
of mobile phones available in different price ranges makes it complicated to choose the
most beneﬁcial phone. The price of mobile phones, the features and speciﬁcations for types
of mobile phones are also increasingly varied. Considering only product ratings to select
the best smartphone carries the risk of unclear and inconsistent interpretation of these
ratings and does not ensure that the best smartphone is selected. The requirements and
preferences of mobile phone users differ, so there is no universal and single solution to the
mobile phone selection problem.
Choosing the most suitable mobile phone is challenging and requires the consumer
to compare different models, often with similar conﬁgurations, and consider many differ-
ent, often opposing principles. Hence, the multi-criteria decision-making strategy looks
very useful in mobile phone selection. Priority, mobile phone selection criteria, include
elements [7,11–14], such as quantitative criteria:
• Product price—gross price of the phone.
• Random Access Memory (RAM) size—RAM size is a parameter of mobile phones that
determines the capacity to install various applications on them.
• Processor (CPU) type—the processor is a powerful built-in device in smartphones
that provides ﬂexible access to applications. Almost all mobile phones have different
processors by speed and type. A higher number of cores and higher processor speed
are the preferred features.
• Built-in memory size—internal memory is a mobile phone feature that allows storing
data on it with a deﬁned capacity.
• The camera quality—the camera in a smartphone is used to take pictures and videos.
The camera is responsible for resolution image quality.
• Screen dimension.
• Battery capacity—duration of a rechargeable battery of a product.
• Weight—body’s relative mass.
Qualitative criteria contain:
• Operating System (OS). Provides user interface and interaction functions. Smart-
phones run on different operating systems: Android (e.g., Huawei P30 Pro 6, Xiaomi
Mi 9), Windows Phone, and iOS (all Apple models).
• Chipset. Manages the data ﬂow between the processor, memory, and peripherals.
• Apps. Application services to consumers.
• Durability.
• User-friendliness.
• Brand. A brand is associated with a company’s name and its services that distinguish
it from other companies. The market analysis results show that ease of use of the
device, access to spare parts and customer support are essential in attracting the
customer to the product. High-quality service and the level of customer support can
increase a company’s proﬁt exponentially.
• Basic and extended in-built function. Basic built-in features are indispensable in all
mobile phones. However, they are speciﬁc to particular phone models. For example,
it is already a standard that every smartphone is equipped with a camera and a video
camcorder. In addition, a smartphone also comes with GPS, a voice recorder, and a
media player for video and audio ﬁles.
• Prominence, product reputation.
• Quality of the screen. There are smartphones on the market that are almost all screen,
such as the Apple iPhone Xs. Super Retina HD OLED screens allow seeing color
depth, such as the Apple iPhone Xs. Widespread and trusted by customers are SUPER
AMOLED screens (an improved version of OLED screens). They are distinguished
by energy efﬁciency and good contrast. In addition, they are ultra-thin and respond
much faster to touch. High-end smartphones are often equipped with a protective
layer of glass to protect against mechanical damage.

--- Page 4 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2195
The rising variety of products available on the market and the associated increasing
amount of information can overwhelm consumers and confuse them, resulting in non-
optimal decision-making. Given the complexity of the multi-criteria problem of choosing
the best mobile phone model, there is a need to provide a decision support system to help
minimize customer trouble when selecting a smartphone.
E-commerce websites are increasingly popular and widely used in the minds of cus-
tomers. They give the possibility to ﬁnd a product in different stores, compare its price,
and do virtual shopping. These sites also often provide customer opinions about products.
The constantly growing number of Internet users and the development of the e-commerce
market cause these websites to develop very quickly, introducing new solutions and im-
provements for their users. A system based on MCDM methods offering customers a
ranking of products selected by them according to the desired criteria and a recommen-
dation of the best choice for them could be a helpful tool signiﬁcantly supplementing the
functionalities of e-commerce sites. The proposed system is personalized and allows for
user interaction in the form of possible pre-selection of alternatives within user-selected
value ranges, selection of relevant criteria, and a weighting method that can be subjective
or objective, depending on user preferences.
Many studies have been reported in the literature using DSSs based on different
MCDM methods applied to decision-making problems for purchasing mobile phones
and other devices. However, most of them consider the study of a single method. It is a
limitation of the studies because particular MCDM methods have various methodological
assumptions, resulting in different solutions for the same problem. Most studies also
lack a proposal for a compromise solution that reliably integrates the results provided
by the different methods studied. A sensitivity analysis is also needed to determine the
reliability of the obtained solutions. In many works on the multi-criteria mobile phones
selection problem, the set of alternatives is insufﬁcient because it contains only a few
models. Moreover, the number of evaluation criteria considered is also insufﬁcient. The
presented shortcomings are limitations of the research. The authors’ goal was to design a
DSS in which the research gaps mentioned above are completed. For this purpose, a set
of alternatives consisting of 1039 mobile phones models was collected, and 12 evaluation
criteria were identiﬁed. Furthermore, to obtain a reliable solution, the authors have selected
ﬁve state-of-the-art MCDM methods based on which a compromise ranking is constructed.
Finally, the study is supplemented by a sensitivity analysis conﬁrming the reliability of
the solution.
1.2. Aim of the Study
This paper aims to present a universal system based on innovative MCDM methods
of recent years that are characterized by high accuracy, efﬁciency, and delivery of objective
results while maintaining ease of application, designed for giving to recommend the most
advantageous product. Furthermore, an attempt was made to select methods in which
problems, such as the ranking reversal phenomenon and high computational complexity,
whose usefulness in selecting the most advantageous alternative, have been conﬁrmed in
the literature.
In order to generate more relevant rankings, the authors use as a ﬁnal ranking the
compromise ranking resulting from the evaluation of alternatives by the selected set of
MCDM methods. It was assumed that the hybrid approach combining COMET with
TOPSIS, COCOSO, EDAS, MAIRCA, and MABAC, because of the advantages presented
in the literature review, represent an appropriate set of MCDM methods that will make
a signiﬁcant contribution to the ﬁnal recommendation for consumer decision support
in shopping on e-commerce sites. Furthermore, the system could become an engine for
future Internet services providing the possibility of comparing products and services
automatically and intuitively and considering many selection criteria. The ﬁnal result of
such a system would be a complete and understandable ranking of products of interest
to the customer. MCDM methods are effective tools for solving problems that require

--- Page 5 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2196
consideration of many often conﬂicting criteria. These types of problems include purchase
decisions for electronic devices, such as mobile phones. MCDM methods, due to their
different methodological basis, may produce different results for the same real-world
problem. Thus, the results provided by different methods should be interpreted carefully.
For this reason, this paper proposes a framework integrating ﬁve MCDM methods and the
Copeland method, providing a reliable compromise ranking based on their results.
To illustrate the application of the proposed system, the authors of this paper per-
formed a descriptive case study of selecting the most advantageous product using mobile
phone data collected from various websites. In the following step of this survey, the ﬁnal
rankings of alternatives are compared using two ranking correlation coefﬁcients: symmet-
rical rw and asymmetrical WS. In the next step, to present a reliable solution based on
the applied MCDM methods, a compromise ranking was determined using the Copeland
ranking strategy. Then, a sensitivity analysis was performed for the compromise rankings
candidates constructed after excluding one from each applied MCDM method. Finally, the
correlation coefﬁcients of the rw and WS rankings were used to measure the match between
the compromise rankings candidates and the rankings provided by each MCDM method.
The proposed framework can be used as a basis for a DSS supporting detailed pur-
chasing decisions. The DSS, which is the subject of the study, will enable customers to
make more knowledgeable decisions when selecting products, devices and services based
on the current market. Furthermore, the suggested system demonstrates its usefulness as a
decision support tool for the most suitable mobile phone recommendation.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, a literature review from
which the applicability and usefulness of MCDM methods in decision support systems
are conﬁrmed is provided. Section 3 introduces the background and main assumptions
of the methods and techniques used in the study. Section 4 illustrates the case study. The
outcomes of the performed research are given in Section 5. Discussion of obtained results
is included in Section 6. Finally, Section 7 provides conclusions and summary.
2. Literature Review
2.1. Characteristics and Applicability of Decision Support System
The early beginning of Computer Decision Support Systems (DSSs) dates back to the
1970s. Their goal is to improve various ﬁelds of people’s lives by supporting decisions
with the increasing use of information technology to improve the quality of decisions by
recommending solutions [15]. Decision Support Systems (DSS) were deﬁned by Little in
1970 as computer information systems that help people solve different issues in a semi-
structured or unstructured way involving data and judgment [9,16]. The modeling strategy
is provided by DSS frameworks by integrating knowledge discovery and automated
decision-making. In the early 1970s, DSSs were introduced as an innovative kind of tool
that combines Data Mining (DM) with artiﬁcial decision-making. DSSs are described as an
interactive computer-based system or subsystem used to support decision-makers in using
communication techniques, data, documents, cognition, and patterns to identify and solve
problems, perform decision-making tasks, and make judgments [17].
Decision support is based on the necessary data collected and processed accordingly.
Decision support systems can be based on expert knowledge to support decision-making
in a given focus area effectively. A characteristic element of decision support systems is the
presence of a mechanism that generates recommendations [18]. Recommender systems
solve the problem of the large amount of information that e-commerce platforms gener-
ate. They provide personalized information to improve user satisfaction. Recommender
systems are used in many ﬁelds, such as e-commerce, health, industry, and e-learning.
Generating personalized recommendations in RS can be done automatically using Machine
Learning (ML) models, big data, Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) models, Deep Neural
Networks (DNN) models, Reinforcement Learning (RL), rules, and multi-criteria decision
analysis methods (MCDA), and other methods, such as linear regression, decision trees,
and logic rules [19–22].

--- Page 6 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2197
More and more advanced algorithms are used to improve the accuracy of RS, such
as fuzzy sets and genetic algorithms [ 23]. Fuzzy set theory is becoming an increasingly
popular approach in problems requiring data representation and user interaction, and infor-
mation extraction from the user. An example is the Operations Research-based Intelligent
Decision Support System (OR-IDSS) [24]. Systems based on fuzzy rules are soft computing
techniques introduced based on a fuzzy set theory proposed by Zadeh [25]. Fuzzy sets are
based on degrees of membership to represent uncertainty. In these techniques, membership
functions and fuzzy rules are generated, which build the system’s knowledge base, and,
based on it, prediction is possible. The fuzzy rules are discovered from the data provided
to the system [26].
RS are important in e-commerce development by implementing personalized and
intelligent services. They provide recommendations based on information extracted from
data and placed in a model that allows interactions and models user preferences. As a result,
RSs minimize customer search costs and suggest products based on explicit and implicit
feedback about customer behavior and preferences [27]. Recommendation systems increase
turnover by offering customized products and services to the client, suggesting additional
products, helping to improve customer loyalty [ 28]. In e-commerce, recommendation
accuracy leads to increased sales and customer loyalty.
Recommender systems depend on consumer feedback and information about their
shopping behavior. There are recommender systems that use agents to determine user
interests and preferences based on historical transaction data. However, these systems
have several problems, such as over-ﬁtting the data of systems based on artiﬁcial neural
networks and machine learning, and the difﬁculty of extracting from the available data
that would represent human preferences accurately and objectively. Therefore, developing
an objective and accurate recommendation system is necessary to provide personalized
recommendations in e-commerce [27].
As it can be noticed, there are many DSSs based on different algorithms, but for
an accurate representation of human preferences, an approach based on Multi-Criteria
Decision-Making seems to be more important. This approach allows the personalization
of recommendations in the form of integrating multiple selected criteria and prioritizing
them. In order to implement multi-criteria decision support systems (MCDSS), these
systems were supplemented with MCDM tools. The decision-making process requiring
aggregation of multiple incommensurable and conﬂicting dimensions is complex and
requires commitment. The technology used in the DSS is supposed to simplify the decision-
making process for decision-makers by combining their priorities and using data with
models to handle multi-criteria decision-making problems [29].
The use of MCDM in DSS increases their efﬁciency [30]. DSSs consist of three main
components: data integration, Data Mining (DM), and MCDM. In the third module, MCDM
methods are used to evaluate the currently available alternatives, ﬁnd the most satisfactory
options, and make appropriate reactions in a timely manner [ 31]. The performance of
MCDM-based DSS requires a deﬁned ﬁxed set of criteria that presents the decision-maker
with a clear representation of all available alternatives. The task essentially is to calculate the
score of each alternative, thereby creating a ranking and selecting the one that maximizes
that value [32].
2.2. Overview of Various MCDM Methods Applied to Decision-Making Problems
Multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) is the process by which the most suitable so-
lution is selected from a set of alternatives considering evaluation criteria [33]. Studies that
consider MCDM methods are widely reported in the operations research (OR) literature.
MCDM methods are used in solving multi-criteria problems to indicate to decision-makers
the best alternative from a set of other options [8]. The use of algorithms in MCDM models
is now a standard in modern approaches to understanding some types of human thinking
and decision-making process [34]. Alternatives and criteria are the two main parameters
considered in any multi-criteria problem. MCDM methods aim to provide a ranking of

--- Page 7 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2198
alternatives taking into account the criteria weights. The TOPSIS technique, which involves
ranking the results in terms of similarity to the ideal solution, belongs to the methods of
comparing and prioritizing alternatives [35,36].
MCDM methods are being developed all the time to be able to cope with the challenges
that are speciﬁc to their domain. One such phenomenon is the rank reversal (RR) paradox.
It consists of a change in the ranking of alternatives when an alternative is added or
removed from their set. It results in a change in the order of priorities of decision-makers
regarding two alternatives and is against the principle of independence of irrelevant
alternatives. Research directions to develop methods resistant to the RR phenomenon
are evident in the development of methods, such as Ranking of Alternatives through
Functional mapping of criterion sub-intervals into a Single Interval (RAFSI) [ 37], Stable
Preference Ordering Towards Ideal Solution (SPOTIS) [38], and the Characteristic Objects
Method (COMET) [39]. Other advantages of the COMET method worth noting are the
high accuracy and the absence of the requirement for arbitrary weights [40]. In literature,
there are descriptions of studies in the successful application of this method to choose
the most advantageous product, for example, electric scooters [41], electric bikes [42], and
electric-powered cars [43,44].
Combined Compromise Solution (COCOSO) is another innovative and relevant
MCDM method [34]. Combined compromise solution (COCOSO) was ﬁrst introduced
initially by Yazdani et al. in 2019 [45]. This method is among the most recent techniques of
MCDM. In its performance, the comparability sequence is used in three ways. This method
is effective in dealing with the ranking or selection of alternatives. Furthermore, they are
assessed against speciﬁc criteria [46]. It integrates simple additive weighting (SAW), step-
wise weight assessment ratio analysis (WASPAS), and Exponentially Weighted Product
(EWP) methods. Combining three different aggregation strategies distinguishes COCOSO
from other MCDM methods and provides stable and reliable results [47]. The literature
reports a successful application of the COCOSO method in the selection of manufacturing
technology [48], personnel selection [49], and sustainable supplier selection [50].
Today, MCDM approaches are extensively applied to elucidate the problems, namely
the mobile phone selection problem. However, MCDM problems differ according to the
solution status and the approaches’ implementation. In recent literature, many research
papers are available in which the solution of the multi-criteria problem of selecting the best
mobile phone using MCDM based approach is presented. In the study of Aggarwal et al.,
the MCDM method called EDAS is used to select the most favorable mobile phone model
from some previously selected mobile phones available in the Indian market [ 10]. The
result obtained from the averaged solution, which reduces the risk of expert bias against
the alternative, is the main advantage that distinguishes EDAS from other MCDM methods.
Additionally, the result obtained from the average solution already normalizes the data,
signiﬁcantly reducing the chances of deviation from the best solution. It follows that this
method gives more reliable and more precise results for real-world multi-criteria problems,
such as choosing the best mobile phone, than other well-known MCDM methods, such as
TOPSIS or VIKOR.
Mishra et al., in 2021, applied an innovative procedure employing the multi-attribute
boundary approximation area comparison (MABAC) to solve the smartphone selection
problem [12]. MABAC has an easy computational process, organized procedure, and
an innovative direction that determines the foundation of real-world decision-making
problems. Over the past few years, the MABAC approach is used by many scholars
in different application areas. Furthermore, the outcomes of the analysis of the results
demonstrate that the introduced method is well-ordered and effective with the existing
ones. Therefore, MABAC appears to be an attractive explorative way to implement the
MABAC in mobile phone selection.
MAIRCA is a technique recently proposed by Pamucar et al. This method is based
on the deﬁnition of the difference between theoretical and actual results. It means that
this method is based on the gap between ideal and empirical priorities [ 51]. The main

--- Page 8 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2199
advantage of this method is related to the dissimilar linear normalization algorithm used.
The described approach to linear normalization allows this method to achieve more efﬁcient
results [52]. Stability of the solution, a well-structured analytical framework for ranking
alternatives, the number of steps independent of the number of criteria, and suitability
for cases with a large number of alternatives and criteria provide an appropriate ranking
depending on a predeﬁned dominance threshold [51].
The MAIRCA method performs calculations given their proximity to ideal solutions,
so it is the preferred method for evaluating decision alternatives. Furthermore, considering
the studies in which this method has been applied, this study is expected to contribute to
the literature as it is a novel method, and surveys using the MAIRCA method for evaluating
mobile phones have not been evidenced yet. Finally, compared with some other MCDM
methods, such as ELECTRE, MAIRCA was chosen due to its relative novelty and ease of
use, as well as its requiring less computing time [53].
Rankings provided by MCDM methods that require weights depend signiﬁcantly
on their determined values. Criteria weights have a direct impact on the ﬁnal results of
MCDM methods. The weights can be established by both objective and subjective methods.
Weights determined by subjective methods require the active participation of the expert
and are assigned by the expert based on knowledge and experience. Examples of subjective
weighting methods include BWM (Best-Worst Method) [ 51], AHP (Analytic Hierarchy
Process) [5,54]. Objective methods set weights based on the data structure, taking into
account each evaluation criterion’s actual degree of dominance.
The evaluation criteria in this study are quantitative measurement data. In such a
case, the CRITIC method gets all the information included in the criteria of assessment.
Therefore, CRITIC’s objective weighting methods may demonstrate more realistic results
due to varying weights to criteria. This method, similar to Mean Weight (MW), Entropy
method, Standard Deviation (SD), and Statistical Variance procedure, belongs to objective
methods that calculate weights by solving mathematical equations omitting to take into
account the decision-maker preferences [55]. The use of subjective methods to determine
weights raises questions about the reliability of the results obtained. Objective weighting
techniques are used to overcome this problem. For this purpose, the CRITIC method
was proposed by Diakoulaki et al. in 1995 [56]. This method takes into consideration the
intensity of the contrast occurring in the structure of the decision problem. Determination
of contrasts between criteria is possible after performing fundamental statistical operations,
such as correlation analysis [57]. During the weighting process, both the standard deviation
of a criterion and its correlation with other criteria are considered [58]. The CRITIC method
belongs to the class of correlation techniques. In this method, the intensity of contrast
and conﬂict in the decision problem structure is considered. In addition, the decision
matrix is examined to determine the information included in the criteria for assessing the
alternatives [59]. In the literature, many examples of the use of the CRITIC method for
weights computation in combination with MCDM methods can be found, both known
for many years and developed in recent times, employed to obtain the rankings of the
assessed alternatives in multi-criteria problems, for example, TOPSIS [58], VIKOR [55,60],
MAUT [61], WASPAS [57,62], AHP [63], EDAS [64], COCOSO [65,66], MULTIMOORA [67],
and CODAS [60].
In Table 1, the MCDM approaches used in the problem of selecting the most advanta-
geous mobile phone model found in the most recent literature are listed. According to the
recent literature, various MCDM strategies have been implemented to identify the most
desirable mobile phone. Moreover, hybrid strategies of MCDM methods demonstrate high
efﬁciency in analyzing real-world problems [8]. It can be noticed that, for better results, a
combined approach involving more than one method is often used in research. For example,
in several publications from recent years, a combined MCDM procedure was adopted to
select the best mobile phone model, where the weights are computed applying the Analytic
Hierarchy Process (AHP). In the ﬁnal stage, a set of alternatives was assessed employing
the Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) MCDM

--- Page 9 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2200
method to give an appropriate reference to the customer [7,8,68]. Therefore, in the research
presented in many publications, several MCDM methods are used to analyze in terms of
comparison and conformity [11,34,69]. Another approach described includes using AHP
adopted to ﬁnd out the criteria weights. In the next stage, two MCDM methods, named
COPRAS and ARAS, are applied to obtain the rankings of the evaluated alternatives [5].
Table 1. MCDM methods used to evaluate mobile phones in recent literature.
MCDM Method Acronym Year References
AHP 2016 [70]
2018 [3]
AHP , BWM and DEMATEL 2019 [34]
AHP-COPRAS, AHP-ARAS 2020 [5]
Fuzzy AHP , Fuzzy ANP 2021 [14]
Fuzzy AHP and PROMETHEE II 2021 [71]
Fuzzy ARAS and TOPSIS 2019 [69]
COCOSO 2019 [34]
EDAS 2018 [10]
ELECTRE 2020 [72]
ELECTRE-III 2018 [6]
MABAC 2021 [12]
TOPSIS 2020 [13]
TOPSIS combined with AHP as weighting method 2020 [7]
2020 [8]
2021 [68]
TOPSIS and MOORA 2020 [11]
VIKOR 2019 [73]
WASPAS 2019 [74]
Only one MCDM method, AHP , was used in Reference [70], which is a subjective
method. So, there is a lack of comparative analysis with other MCDM methods, which
could give a different ﬁnal ranking. Besides, only four mobile phones were evaluated in this
study with ﬁve criteria. The situation is similar in Reference [ 3], which also used only the
AHP method to evaluate three criteria for mobile phone models. In Reference [69], only ﬁve
alternatives of mobile phones were evaluated. Many works dedicated to evaluating mobile
phones using MCDM have used only one method [6,10,12,13,71,72]. In Reference [5], 10 al-
ternatives were evaluated with four criteria. Two MCDM approaches, AHP-COPRAS and
AHP-ARAS, were used as methods to evaluate the alternatives, resulting in two rankings
that were not identical. However, their similarity was not measured using an objective
correlation coefﬁcient. In addition, no strategy was proposed to present a consensus solu-
tion considering both rankings. Similar approaches considering no more than two MCDM
methods for ranking alternatives can be observed in References [11,13,14,69]. In the case of
the mobile phones evaluation problem, the small set of evaluated alternatives containing
only 3–5 alternatives is a limitation of the study because it insufﬁciently represents the
diversity speciﬁc to these devices. The same is true for the criteria, as their small number
insufﬁciently represents consumer preferences. The use of one or two MCDM methods is
also a limitation because different MCDM methods may give different solutions to the same
problem. Thus, selecting an MCDM method to make a reliable decision is a challenge. In
turn, using multiple MCDM methods may result in different rankings. Thus, a framework
is needed that integrates the results of different methods and builds a reliable compromise
ranking based on them. In Reference [75], a set of six MCDM methods, including TOPSIS,
VIKOR, PROMETHEE II, COPRAS, COMET, and SPOTIS, were used to evaluate electric
bus alternatives. Based on the rankings obtained using the voting approach, compromise
rankings were constructed and then compared with the rankings provided by the six
MCDM methods using correlation coefﬁcients. The compromise ranking was also used

--- Page 10 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2201
in the battery electric vehicles (BEVs) evaluation problem [47]. It was generated from the
SECA, MARCOS, ARAS, COCOSO, MAIRCA, and COPRAS rankings by applying the
Borda technique and Copeland strategy.
The AHP method uses a scale to determine the importance of each criterion and a
pairwise comparison matrix to scale the importance of each criterion [54]. The requirement
to perform only a pairwise comparison for all alternatives simpliﬁes the decision-making
process. Unfortunately, this method is not rank reversal-free [ 76]. The AHP (Analytic
Hierarchy Process) method is from the American school, similar to TOPSIS, VIKOR. Meth-
ods from the American school are based on the utility or value function. These methods
use two types of relationships between the alternatives being evaluated: indifference and
preference. However, they do not consider the incomparability of the options. It results
in undesirable substitution effects (linear compensation) that occur even in their fuzzy
extensions. The most popular methods from the European School include ELECTRE family
and PROMETHEE II. Methods from the European school consider relations, the most com-
mon of which is indifference and weak or strong preference. They have a reduced linear
compensation effect and are more oriented toward modeling user preferences. Methods
from European school utilize outranking relations in the preference aggregation process.
The described relationship is not transitive between pairs of evaluated alternatives. Re-
searchers from European school point out that American school methods do not consider
variability or uncertainty of expert judgements [77]. The PROMETHEE II method results
in numerical values calculated for each evaluated alternative. In contrast, the result of
the ELECTRE family of methods is not quantitative, so the application of this method is
limited depending on the results expected by the decision-maker, the need to combine
different methods, or comparative analysis [78]. The methods mentioned above are not
resistant to the rank reversal paradox, evidenced by a change in rankings when some
alternatives are added or removed. The problem of the occurrence of rank reversal paradox
has been evidenced in studies for TOPSIS [79,80], AHP [76,81], PROMETHEE II [82], and
ELECTRE [83]. Rank reversal paradox is a problem in the automation of decision-making
processes [76].
The COCOSO method, unlike the approaches mentioned above, considers three
different aggregation strategies, Simple Additive Weighting (SAW), step-wise weight
assessment ratio analysis (WASPAS), and Exponentially Weighted Product (EWP) methods,
to obtain a stable and reliable solution [34]. The main advantage of the ARAS method is
that it has a utility function that enables an alternative to be proportioned to the optimal
alternative. The COPRAS method helps ﬁnd the similarity between each alternative and
the optimal alternative by using degrees of utility [5,47]. The WASPAS method is a unique
combination of the Weighted Sum Model (WSM) and Weighted Product Model (WPM).
The main objective of the WASPAS method is to achieve the highest estimation accuracy by
using weighted aggregate function optimization [57].
The Characteristic Objects METhod (COMET) is an innovative method based on
fuzzy set theory that successfully addresses the limitations in the previously mentioned
approaches. The main advantage of this method is its resistance to the rank reversal para-
dox [84]. This phenomenon consists in changing the ranking order when some alternatives
are removed from the set under evaluation [76]. The algorithm of the COMET method is
based on a set of characteristic objects, which are reference points in the problem space. The
characteristic objects are independent of the evaluated alternatives, so, even if an alterna-
tive is removed or added, there will never be a swap of places in the resulting ranking [85].
In contrast to the previously mentioned methods, the algorithm of the COMET method
has a complexity independent of the number of alternatives evaluated. This method
provides accurate results, and operating on fuzzy numbers reﬂects adequately realistic
problems where uncertainty and ﬂuctuation are common. In this approach, the knowledge-
dependent step for the decision-maker is a pairwise comparison of characteristic objects,
the number of which depends on the number of criteria considered in the evaluation and
their characteristic values. The possibility of creating a hierarchical model with an arbitrary

--- Page 11 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2202
structure in the decomposition process signiﬁcantly reduces the number of comparisons
required [86]. However, the expert pairwise comparison stage is always the most laborious
step of this method. In order to eliminate this subjective and time-consuming step, a novel
hybrid approach named TOPSIS-COMET, combining another MCDA method, TOPSIS,
with the COMET method, is proposed. TOPSIS is used in this case to evaluate a set of
characteristic objects instead of a laborious pairwise comparison by an expert to ﬁll in the
Matrix Expert Judgement (MEJ). The proposed method is still rank reversal-free, just as
in its classical version because TOPSIS, unlike its traditional application, is used here to
evaluate characteristic objects instead of alternatives. The described approach was ﬁrst
presented in Reference [87]. The decision to combine TOPSIS with COMET is justiﬁed by
the fact that the TOPSIS method has many advantages, such as a simple, understandable,
and widely used algorithm and returning the result in the form of a vector of numbers [88],
which plays the role of the SJ vector created in the classical version of the COMET method
based on MEJ. The modular approach of the COMET method allows for further develop-
ment and modiﬁcation of the method, which is a signiﬁcant advantage when considering
this method as a DSS engine. Different MCDM methods may generate divergent solutions
to the same problem due to their various methodological bases. The differences in results
do not mean that the solutions are wrong. There is no complex or single method that is
better than its equivalents. Although all MCDM methods are based on sound theoretical
foundations, each technique has its advantages and disadvantages. Thus, a model must be
proposed to achieve the compromise score and, thus, increase its reliability. In the approach
presented in Reference [47], the results from six different MCDM techniques are aggregated
using the Borda and Copeland compromise ranking counting method. With this model,
a consensus result can be achieved, and the reliability of the results is increased.
Due to the several advantages of the COMET method proved above, the authors of this
work propose the TOPSIS-COMET hybrid approach as an engine of novelty DSS, which will
be presented on an illustrative example of the problem of selecting the most advantageous
mobile phone model. The authors propose an innovative DSS that recommends the
compromise ranking that considers rankings from several relevant methods. Therefore, as a
set of additional methods complementary for the innovative TOPSIS-COMET approach, the
authors of this paper have chosen four MCDA methods: COCOSO, EDAS, MAIRCA, and
MABAC. Based on the methods used, the Copeland strategy for constructing compromise
ranking was applied, allowing multiple ranking lists to be combined into one. A sensitivity
analysis was then performed on the compromise rankings candidates to calculate their
match to the rankings provided by the methods used in the study. Correlation coefﬁcients
rw and WS were chosen as measures of matching.
3. Materials and Methods
This section introduces the MCDM methods selected based on the performed literature
review as the main component of a DSS designed to provide customers with recommenda-
tions in ranking a selected range of products on e-commerce websites. The fundamentals,
main assumptions and stages of TOPSIS-COMET, COCOSO, EDAS, MAIRCA, and MABAC
methods are provided here.
3.1. The TOPSIS-COMET Method
COMET (Characteristic Objects METhod) method uses the basics of fuzzy logic and
triangular fuzzy sets [ 89]. The main advantages of the COMET method are its high
accuracy, lack of requirement for weights, and its complete resistance to rank reversal
paradox [87]. It happens because the alternatives are evaluated in the COMET method
using a model identiﬁed based on characteristic objects independent of the set of evaluated
decision alternatives. Thus, it ensures that there is no comparison of the evaluated decision
alternatives among themselves, unlike many other multi-criteria decision analysis methods,
and the result of their evaluation is obtained solely based on the identiﬁed model. It

--- Page 12 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2203
guarantees that the evaluation values for the alternatives will not change when the same
decision model is used, so the paradox never occurs [90].
Step 1. The dimensionality of the problem is deﬁned by the expert by choosing the number
r of criteria, C1, C2, . . ., Cr. In the next stage, the set of fuzzy numbers for each criterion Ci
is chosen, i.e., ˜Ci1, ˜Ci2, . . ., ˜Cici. Each fuzzy number deﬁnes the value of the membership for
a particular linguistic concept for particular crisp values [91,92]. Therefore, it is also useful
for variables that are not continuous. In this way, the following outcome is achieved (1).
C1 =
{ ˜C11, ˜C12, . . . , ˜C1c1
}
C2 =
{ ˜C21, ˜C22, . . . , ˜C2c2
}
. . .
Cr =
{ ˜Cr1, ˜Cr2, . . . , ˜Crcr
}
, (1)
where C1, C2, . . . ,Cr are numbers of the fuzzy numbers for all criteria.
Step 2. Characteristic objects are named generated objects that deﬁne reference points in
n-dimensional space. Their role may be played by real or idealized objects, which do not
exist [93]. The characteristic objects (CO) are received from the Cartesian product of fuzzy
numbers cores for each criteria [43]. As the result, the ordered set of all CO is obtained (2):
CO1 =⟨C( ˜C11), C( ˜C21), . . . ,C( ˜Cr1)⟩
CO2 =⟨C( ˜C11), C( ˜C21), . . . ,C( ˜Cr2)⟩
. . .
COt =⟨C( ˜C1c1 ), C( ˜C2c2 ), . . . ,C( ˜Crcr )⟩
, (2)
where t means a number of CO (3):
t =
r
∏
i=1
ci. (3)
Step 3. The Matrix of Expert Judgement (MEJ ) is determined by the expert. It is a result of
pairwise comparison of the characteristic objects to the knowledge of the expert [94]. The
MEJ structure is represented by (4):
MEJ =


α11 α12 . . . α1t
α21 α22 . . . α2t
. . . . . . . . . . . .
αt1 αt2 . . . αtt

, (4)
where αij is a result of comparing COi and COj by the expert. The characteristic object
which is more preferred gets one point, and the second object which is less preferred is
given zero points. If the preferences are equal, both objects get half point [44]. It depends
only on the knowledge of the expert and can be illustrated as (5):
αij =



0.0, fexp (COi) < fexp (COj)
0.5, fexp (COi) = fexp (COj)
1.0, fexp (COi) > fexp (COj)
, (5)
where fexp is an expert mental judgement function. In this study, however, the TOPSIS
method was used as an expert function. This approach is presented in Reference [87].
Then, the vertical vector of the Summed Judgements (SJ ) is received as provided by
Equation (6):
SJi =
t
∑
j=1
αij. (6)
The number of query is equal p = t(t−1)
2 because, for each element αij, we can observe
that αji = 1− αij.

--- Page 13 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2204
In the result, the vector P is obtained, where i-th row includes the accurate value of
preference for COi.
In the proposed hybrid TOPSIS-COMET approach, in this step, the characteristic
objects are not compared pairwise by the expert, and the MEJ matrix is not constructed.
Instead of these procedures, the set of characteristic objects is evaluated by the TOPSIS
method, which returns a vertical preference vector as the SJ vector. The following steps are
identical to the classic version of the COMET method.
Step 4. Each characteristic object is converted into a fuzzy rule, where the degree of
membership of each criterion is the premise for activating the inference in the formPi. Each
characteristic object and preference value is converted into a fuzzy rule in the following
detailed form (7). In this way, a complete fuzzy rule base is obtained, which approximates
the mental evaluation function of the expert fexp (COi) [95].
IF C
( ˜C1i
)
AND C
( ˜C2i
)
AND . . . THEN Pi. (7)
Step 5. Each one of the alternatives Ai is a set of crisp numbers ari corresponding to criteria
C1, C2, . . . ,Cr. It can be displayed as follows (8):
Ai ={a1i, a2i, . . . ,ari}. (8)
3.2. The COCOSO Method
Using many methods to explain multi-criteria problems, the outcome ranking pro-
duced by speciﬁc methods may change signiﬁcantly, corresponding to the change of weight
distributions of criteria. To improve this limitation, the COCOSO (Combined Compro-
mise Solution) method, a newly proposed algorithm, was introduced by Yazdani et al.
The recommended procedure is based on combined, simple additive weighting and ex-
ponentially weighted product model [ 45]. It can represent a summary of compromise
solutions [96]. It integrates the SAW [97], WASPAS (Weighted Aggregated Sum Product
Assessment) [98], and MEW (Multiplicative Exponential Weighting) methods [ 99] with
aggregation strategies. By this method, decision-makers can get a multi-faceted compro-
mise solution, which is compatible with the solution received by other MCDM methods,
such as the VIKOR [100], WASPAS [98], and MOORA (Multi-Objective Optimization on
the basis of Ratio Analysis) methods [101]. Moreover, the optimal solution screened by the
COCOSO method is not simply inﬂuenced by the changes of criteria’s weight distribution
or the deletion/addition of alternatives. These imply that the COCOSO method is a robust
method, which has advantages in reliability and stability of the decision-making results.
In addition, the COCOSO method is easy to understand and has wide applicability and,
thus, has been extended to different circumstances to solve decision-making problems in
different domain [65,102]. To solve a decision problem with COCOSO, after determining
the alternatives and the related criteria, the following steps are validated [45]:
Step 1. Deﬁnition of a decision matrix of dimension n× m, where n is the number of
alternatives, and m is the number of criteria (9).
xij =


x11 x12 . . . x1m
x21 x22 . . . x2m
. . . . . . . . . . . .
xn1 xn2 . . . xnm

. (9)
Step 2. Normalization the decision matrix, where, for proﬁt criteria, use the Equation (10),
and for cost criteria, use the Equation (11). In this study, The Minimum-Maximum normal-
ization method was used.
rij = xij− mini xij
maxi xij− mini xij
, (10)

--- Page 14 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2205
rij = maxi xij− xij
maxi xij− mini xij
. (11)
Step 3. Calculation of the weighted sum of the comparison sequence and the total power
weight of the comparison sequences for each alternative. The values of Si are based on the
grey relationship generation method (12), and for Pi the values are achieved according to
the multiplicative WASPAS setting (13).
Si =
n
∑
j=1
(wjrij ), (12)
Pi =
n
∑
j=1
(rij )wj. (13)
Step 4. Computation of the relative weights of alternatives using aggregation strategies.
The formulas determine the strategies (14)–(16), where the ﬁrst strategy expresses the
average of the sums of WSM and WPM scores (14), the second strategy expresses the
sum of WSM and WPM scores over the best (15), and the third strategy expresses the
compromise strategy of WSM and WPM by using the λ value (16). In this study, a λ value
of 0.5 was used.
kia = Pi + Si
∑m
i=1(Pi + Si) , (14)
kib = Si
mini Si
+ Pi
mini Pi
, (15)
kic = λ(Si) + (1− λ)(Pi)
(λ maxi Si + (1− λ) maxi Pi) ; 0 ⩽ λ ⩽ 1. (16)
Step 5. Establish the ﬁnal ranking of alternatives based on ki values deﬁned using
Formula (17). The higher the ki value, the higher the ranking.
ki = (kiakibkic)
1
3 + 1
3 (kia + kib + kic). (17)
3.3. The EDAS Method
EDAS (Evaluation based on Distance from Average Solution) is a newly proposed
method proposed by Ghorabaee et al. in 2015 [ 103]. Ghorabaee et al. also developed
a fuzzy extension of this method [ 104]. The EDAS method uses two distance measures
in the calculation: the positive distance from the mean (PDA) and the other being the
negative distance from the mean (NDA). Alternatives are evaluated according to higher
PDA values and lower NDA values. The subsequent stages of the EDAS procedure for
a decision-making problem with the m criteria and the n alternatives can accurately be
shown as follows [33]:
Step 1. Deﬁne a decision matrix of dimension n× m, where n is the number of alternatives,
and m is the number of criteria (18).
Xij =


x11 x12 . . . x1m
x21 x22 . . . x2m
. . . . . . . . . . . .
xn1 xn2 . . . xnm

. (18)
Step 2. Calculate the average solution for each criterion according to Formula (19).
AVj = ∑n
i=1 Xij
n . (19)

--- Page 15 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2206
Step 3. Calculating the positive distance from the mean solution and the negative distance
from the mean solution for the alternatives. When the criterion is of proﬁt type, the negative
distance and the positive distance are calculated usingEquations (21) and (20), while, when
the criterion is of cost type, the distances are calculated using Formulas (23) and (22).
PDA ij = max
(
0,
(
Xij− AVj
))
AVj
, (20)
NDA ij = max
(
0,
(
AVj− Xij
))
AVj
, (21)
PDA ij = max
(
0,
(
AVj− Xij
))
AVj
, (22)
NDA ij = max
(
0,
(
Xij− AVj
))
AVj
. (23)
Step 4. Calculate the weighted sums of PDA and NDA for each decision variant using
Equations (24) and (25).
ASPi =
m
∑
j=1
wjPDA ij, (24)
SNi =
m
∑
j=1
wjNDA ij. (25)
Step 5. Normalize the weighted sums of negative and positive distances using Equations (26)
and (27).
NSPi = SPi
maxi(SPi) , (26)
NSNi = 1− SNi
maxi(SNi) . (27)
Step 6. Calculate the evaluation score (AS) for each alternative using Formula (28). A higher
point value determines a higher ranking alternative.
ASi = 1
2 (NSPi + NSNi). (28)
3.4. The MAIRCA Method
The MAIRCA (MultiAttributive Ideal-Real Comparative Analysis) method is a proce-
dure that is easy to use because it maintains a high degree of stability even when the criteria
change [105]. The Center for Logistics Research at the University of Defence in Belgrade
developed MAIRCA in 2014 [52]. The performance of the MAIRCA method requires the
determination of the gap between the ideal and empirical weights. Then, the sum of the
gaps for each criterion provides the total gap for each observed alternative. In the ﬁnal
step, a ﬁnal ranking of alternatives is provided, in which the best-ranked alternative is the
one with the smallest value of the total gap. The alternative having the smallest total gap
value has values that are closest to the ideal weights according to the largest number of
criteria (ideal criteria values). The MAIRCA method is performed in six steps, described as
follows [106]:
Step 1. Deﬁne a decision matrix of dimension n× m, where n is the number of alternatives,
and m is the number of criteria (29).

--- Page 16 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2207
xij =


x11 x12 . . . x1m
x21 x22 . . . x2m
. . . . . . . . . . . .
xn1 xn2 . . . xnm

. (29)
Step 2. Determine the preference for choosing alternatives using the vector PAi using
Formula (30).
PAi = 1
n ;
n
∑
i=1
PAi = 1, i = 1, 2, . . . ,n. (30)
If the decision-maker is neutral in choosing an alternative, the vector PAi should have
the same values (31).
PA1 = PA2 = . . . = PAn. (31)
Step 3. Create a theoretical ranking matrixTp. The elements of this matrix are the multiplied
priorities of alternatives by the criteria weights. The form of this matrix can be represented
by Formula (32).
Tp =


tp11 tp12 . . . tp1m
tp21 tp22 . . . tp2m
. . . ··· . . . . . .
tpn1 tpn2 . . . tpnm

 =


PA1· w1 PA1· w2 . . . PA1· wm
PA2· w1 PA2· w2 . . . PAm· wm
. . . . . . . . . . . .
PAn· w1 PAn· w2 . . . PAn· wm

. (32)
When the preferences determined for the alternatives by the decision-maker are
equal, the theoretical ranking matrix is represented by a theoretical ranking vector using
Formula (33).
Tp =
[
tp11 tp12 . . . tp1n
]
=
[
pA1.w1 pA1· w2 . . . pA1· wn
]
. (33)
Step 4. Create the real rating matrix, which is shown by Formula (34).
Tr =


tr11 tr12 . . . tr1m
tr21 tr22 . . . tr2m
. . . . . . . . . . . .
trn1 trn2 . . . trnm

. (34)
The values of the real rating matrix are determined depending on the criterion of
proﬁt type or cost type, sequentially, according to Formulas (35) and (36).
trij = tpij·
(
xij− min xj
max xj− min xj
)
, (35)
trij = tpij·
(
xij− max xj
min xj− max xj
)
. (36)
Step 5. Calculate the total gap matrix (G) by taking the difference between the theoretical
grade matrix (Tp) and the actual grade matrix (Tr) using Formula (37).
G = Tp− Tr =


tp11− tr11 tp12− tr12 . . . tp1m− tr1m
tp21− tr21 tp21− tr21 . . . tp2m− tr2m
. . . . . . . . . . . .
tpn1− trn1 tpn2− trn2 . . . tpnm− trnm

. (37)

--- Page 17 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2208
Step 6. Calculate the ﬁnal values of the criterion functions (Qi) for the alternatives using
the sum of the rows of the gap matrix ( G) using Formula (38). The alternative with the
lowest value of Qi has the highest ranking.
Qi =
m
∑
j=1
gij i = 1, 2, . . . ,n. (38)
3.5. The MABAC Method
The MABAC (Multi-Attributive Border Approximation Area Comparison) is a new
method of multi-criteria decision-making. The MABAC method was worked out just as in
MAIRCA by the research center at the University of Defence in Belgrade. Pamuˇ car and
´Cirovi´ c ﬁrst implemented this approach in 2015 [12,107]. It determines the distance mea-
sures between each possible alternative and the boundary approximation area (BAA) [108].
The fundamental objective of the MABAC method is to determine the distance of the
criterion function of each alternative from the approximation region of the boundary. The
following section presents the implementation process of the MABAC method, which
consists of 6 stages [107]:
Step 1. Deﬁne a decision matrix of dimension n× m, where n is the number of alternatives,
and m is the number of criteria (39).
xij =


x11 x12 . . . x1m
x21 x22 . . . x2m
. . . . . . . . . . . .
xn1 xn2 . . . xnm

. (39)
Step 2.Normalization of the decision matrix, where, for criteria of type profit,Equation (40)is
used, and, for criteria of type cost, Equation (41) is used.
nij = xij− min xi
max xi− min xi
, (40)
nij = xij− max xi
min xi− max xi
. (41)
Step 3. Create a weighted matrix based on the values from the normalized matrix according
to Formula (42).
vij = wi·
(
nij + 1
)
. (42)
Step 4. Boundary approximation area (G) matrix determination. The Boundary Approxi-
mation Area (BAA ) for all criteria can be determined using Formula (43).
gi =
(
m
∏
j=1
vij
)1/m
. (43)
Step 5. Distance calculation of alternatives from the boundary approximation area for
matrix elements (Q) by Equation (44).
Q =


v11− g1 v12− g2 . . . v1n− gn
v21− g1 v22− g2 . . . v2n− gn
. . . . . . . . . . . .
vm1− g1 vm2− g2 . . . vmn− gn

 =


q11 q12 . . . q1n
q21 q22 q2n
. . . . . . . . . . . .
qm1 qm2 . . . qmn

. (44)
The membership of a given alternative Ai to the approximation area (G, G+ or G−) is
established by (45).

--- Page 18 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2209
Ai∈



G+ if qij > 0
G if qij = 0
G− if qij < 0
. (45)
Step 6. Rank the alternatives according to the sum of the distances of the alternatives from
the areas of approximation of the borders (46).
Si =
n
∑
j=1
qij, j = 1, 2, . . . ,n, i = 1, 2, . . . ,m. (46)
3.6. The CRITIC Weighting Method
The CRITIC method (CRiteria Importance Through Intercriteria Correlation) is an
objective weighting method introduced by Diakoulaki et al. in 1995 [56]. This method is
used to establish the values of the assessment criteria weights. The CRITIC method gains all
information included in the evaluation criteria [55]. This method allows the weights to be
determined by omitting the preferences of the decision-maker. The weights are calculated
in this procedure using mathematical formulas This method appears to be appropriate for
determining the criteria weights because it determines them by considering both contrast
and conﬂict intensity in the structure of the decision problem. The described algorithm
is founded on an analytical examination of the evaluation matrix aimed at obtaining all
the information included in the evaluation criteria. Objective weight values are obtained
through the process of quantifying the internal information of each evaluation criterion.
In this method, determining criteria weights considers both the standard deviation of
a criterion and its correlation among other criteria. An initial decision matrix for the
described procedure has the form given by the equation X = [ xij ]m×n and consists of
m alternatives and n criteria, where xij is the metric of performance of ith alternative
with regard to jth criterion. Weights of the jth criterion wj are obtained with using of
the following notations: cj, means the quantity of information included in jth criterion, σj
means the standard deviation of thejth criterion, and ρjk indicates the correlation coefﬁcient
among the jth and kth criteria. Based on the assumptions presented above, the calculation
stages of the CRITIC method are as follows [109]:
Step 1. Normalization of the initial decision matrix using Equation (47) for beneﬁt criteria:
rij =
xij− xmin
j
xmax
j − xmin
j
. (47)
Step 2. Calculation of the correlation among criteria pairs by using Equation (48):
ρjk = ∑m
i=1(rij− rj)(rik− rk)√
∑m
i=1(rij− rj)2 ∑m
i=1(rik− rk)2
. (48)
Step 3. Computation of weights of criteria by using Equations (49) and (50)
cj = σj
n
∑
k=1
(1− ρjk); (49)
wj = cj
∑n
k=1 ck
, (50)
where i = 1, 2, . . . ,m; j, k = 1, 2, . . . ,n.
3.7. Ranking Similarity Coefﬁcients
Employing various MCDM methods to solve the identical decisional problem may
give different rankings. For examining their similarity, several correlation measures are
used. Two similarity coefﬁcients were applied to compare the outcomes received from
the various methods and determine how strong they were consistent. For this purpose,

--- Page 19 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2210
symmetrical weighted Spearman’s rank correlation coefﬁcientrw and asymmetrical rank
similarity coefﬁcient WS were used.
Weighted Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefﬁcient
For a samples of size N, the rank values Xi and yi is deﬁned as (51). In this approach,
the positions at the top of both rankings are more signiﬁcant. The relevance weight is
computed for each comparison.
rw = 1− 6 ∑N
i=1(xi− yi)2((N− xi + 1) + (N− yi + 1))
N4 + N3− N2− N . (51)
3.8. Rank Similarity Coefﬁcient
For a sample of size N, the rank values xi and yi is deﬁned as (52) [ 110]. It is an
asymmetrical measure. The weight of each comparison is determined by the importance
of the items in the ﬁrst ranking. In turn, the ﬁrst ranking is used as the reference ranking
during the calculation [111].
WS = 1−
N
∑
i=1
2−xi |xi− yi|
max (|xi− 1|,|xi− N|) . (52)
3.9. The Copeland Method
The Copeland method is used to construct a compromise ranking based on the rank-
ings provided by different approaches. It uses the well-known technique of aggregating
the rankings of Borda count. The subsequent stages of this strategy are presented in
Reference [47].
The stages of the Borda count are as follows:
Step 1. Evaluation of the alternatives. This technique ﬁrst assigns (n− 1) points to the
alternative which is most preferred by the decision-maker and zero points for the least
preferred. This stage is performed for each MCDM method.
Step 2. Calculation of the Borda score. The Borda score of each alternative is received by
summing up the scores.
Step 3. Rank the options. The best alternative has the highest Borda score.
The steps of the Copeland strategy are as follows:
Step 1. Calculation of the wins score. First of all, the wins score of each alternative is
calculated. The win score is calculated as the sum of the ranking order of the alternatives
according to different methods.
Step 2. Calculation of the losses score. The wins score of each option are subtracted from
the majority wins score. In this way, the losses scores of the options are received.
Step 3. Determination of the ﬁnal scores and ranking. The difference between the wins
score and the losses score provides the ﬁnal score of each option. Finally, the best option is
this one, which has the highest overall score.
A ﬂow chart visualizing the presented DSS designed on the basis of methods presented
in this section is displayed in Figure 1. The user chooses the criteria relevant in selecting
the most advantageous alternative from the available dataset. The next step is to determine
the importance of the criteria using a user-selected weighting technique, either objective
or subjective. In the example presented here, the objective CRITIC weighting technique
is used. Then, the decision matrix with alternatives and criteria and the vector of criteria
importance are taken by a set of MCDM methods to evaluate the alternatives. Finally, based
on the obtained solutions, a compromise ranking is constructed as a recommendation for
the user.

--- Page 20 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2211
Recommendation
Compromise 
ranking
Evaluation of alternatives with MCDM methods
TOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Evaluation of alternatives with MCDM methods
TOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Preferences inductionPreferences induction
Compromise ranking constructionCompromise ranking construction
Customer
Copeland method
Dataset
Set of 
alternatives
Evaluation 
criteria
Dataset
Set of 
alternatives
Evaluation 
criteria
Objective 
CRITIC 
weighting
Objective 
CRITIC 
weighting
DSS
Decision matrixDecision matrix
Figure 1. The ﬂow chart of the DSS with component based on MCDM methods.
4. An Illustrative Case Study of a Multi-Criteria Mobile Phones Selection Problem
with Proposed DSS
In this study, a Decision Support System founded on MCDM methods is presented on
the evaluation of selected mobile phone models. This DSS could be applied in the Internet
services industry, such as e-commerce. The system recommendation is provided as a
compromise ranking based on the recommendation of each method used. The compromise
ranking is calculated by aggregating the result rankings of all the MCDM methods used
according to the Copeland strategy, which involves the Borda method. For the TOPSIS-
COMET method, minimum and maximum values were used as characteristic values for
each criterion.
The system proposed by the authors of this study includes three main stages, which can be
presented as follows:
1. In the ﬁrst step, data from various online platforms are analyzed to recognize a list of
relevant criteria used to assess mobile phones.
2. The second step includes the calculation of the weights, which represent user pref-
erences. In this illustrative example, the weights are determined using an objective
weighting method named CRITIC, introduced in Section 3.6. However, it is also
possible to customize to the decision-maker’s preference and use a vector of weights
determined independently, or using another method, also subjective, such as AHP .
3. Finally, a set of alternatives is evaluated using the MCDM methods, and a recommen-
dation of the most advantageous product in the form of compromise ranking based
on the used set of MCDMs is provided to a user.
Additionally, a comparative analysis of the rankings obtained using all MCDM meth-
ods considered in this study is presented. It was followed by a sensitivity analysis per-
formed for compromise rankings candidates calculated from all methods used and for the
compromise rankings candidates obtained by excluding one each from all MCDM methods
used. In other words, the compromise ranking candidate Rank 1 was calculated with all
MCDM methods used in this study, while Rank 2 was created without TOPSIS-COMET,
Rank 3 without COCOSO, Rank 4 without EDAS, Rank 5 without MAIRCA, and Rank 6
without MABAC. In the lack of having a reference ranking, the goal is to select the reference

--- Page 21 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2212
ranking that shows the most signiﬁcant similarity to the rankings provided by the MCDM
methods included in the study. The next stage of the sensitivity analysis is to calculate the
correlation coefﬁcients rw and WS between the compromise ranking candidates and the
rankings provided by each MCDM method. This step determines the match between the
compromise ranking candidates and the rankings from the MCDM methods. The ﬁnal
stage is to compute the rw and WS between the compromise ranking candidates.
In this study, 1039 mobile phone models were selected and evaluated using the
implemented DSS. Data on selected mobile phones models, including values of selected
evaluation criteria, were collected from various websites, i.e., online stores posting sales
offers for various phone models, along with parameters of selected evaluation criteria.
In Table 2, 12 selected criteria considered in the evaluation of mobile phones, with their
names, types of proﬁt or cost and units, are listed. The selected criteria represent sample
parameters of mobile phones. However, the system allows selecting any evaluation criteria
relevant to the customer, whose values will be expressed in numbers.
In the example simulation presented in this article, criteria weights were established
applying the sample objective CRITIC method introduced in Section 3.6. For the TOPSIS-
COMET method, each considered criterion’s minimum and maximum values were used as
characteristic values.
In the next step, the similarity of the received rankings is investigated. For this purpose,
two ranking correlation coefﬁcients are calculated, symmetrical rw and asymmetrical WS,
for each pair of rankings obtained applying various MCDM methods. The fundamentals
of these coefﬁcients are detailed in Section 3.7.
Table 2. Selected criteria C1–C12, their name, type, and unit.
Ci Name Type Unit
C1 Weight Cost Gram [g]
C2 Weight Cost Ounce [oz]
C3 Year of production Proﬁt Year
C4 Display resolution Proﬁt Megapixel [Mpix ]
C5 Memory card Proﬁt Gigabyte [GB]
C6 Internal memory Proﬁt Gigabyte [GB]
C7 Random-access memory (RAM) Proﬁt Megabyte [MB]
C8 Primary camera Proﬁt Megapixel [Mpix ]
C9 Secondary camera Proﬁt Megapixel [Mpix ]
C10 Bluetooth Proﬁt Version
C11 USB Proﬁt Version
C12 Approx price Cost Euro [ e ]
The data for the complete set of alternatives and a set containing 20 models selected
randomly from it, their normalized values, the preference values obtained for the MCDM
methods used in the study, and the resulting rankings are available at https://github.com/
kiziebar/Phones_data (accessed on 15 July 2021).
5. Results
5.1. A Small Set Containing 20 Sample Randomly Selected Alternatives from the Complete Set
The ﬁrst stage of the study presents the practical implication of applying the proposed
DSS using an example of 20 alternatives randomly selected from the whole set. They
represent a small set of alternatives. This step aims to simulate a situation in which the user
selects from a set of alternatives constrained by factors, such as pre-selection of alternatives
within speciﬁc ranges of criteria values acceptable to the user or are available at the time.
Weights determined with the CRITIC weighting method are included in Table 3.
The decision matrix, including the criteria values for the evaluated randomly selected
alternatives, is contained in Table 4. The decision matrix normalized with using the
Minimum-Maximum normalization method is contained in Table 5.

--- Page 22 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2213
Table 3. Criteria weights determined for a small set of alternatives using the CRITIC method.
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12
0.07703 0.09694 0.06047 0.07337 0.10404 0.05306 0.05944 0.09119 0.08999 0.07846 0.13067 0.08529
Table 4. Decision matrix for a small set of alternatives.
Phones C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12
KP110 202 7 2015 5 64 8 2048 13 5 4 2 170
C3-01 Gold Edition 150 5 2014 5 32 4 1024 8 2 4 2 180
7380 160 5 2016 5 256 32 3072 16 8 4 1 420
W180 170 6 2016 5 32 16 2048 8 8 4 2 110
Aquaris M4.5 115 6 2015 4 64 8 1024 8 5 4 2 180
Zenfone 3 Deluxe 5.5 ZS550KL 151 5 2016 5 256 64 4096 16 8 4 2 440
M600 310 10 2017 8 256 16 2048 5 2 4 2 100
Liquid Z410 145 11 2015 4 32 8 1024 5 2 4 2 130
Liquid Jade Z 110 3 2015 5 32 8 1024 13 5 4 2 200
nova plus 160 5 2016 5 256 32 3072 16 8 4 1 420
X3-02 Touch and Type 130 4 2013 4 64 8 1024 8 1 4 2 290
Zenfone 2 ZE551ML 170 6 2015 5 256 16 2048 13 5 4 2 370
1110i 143 4 2017 5 256 16 2048 13 5 4 2 150
P5 Qmax 176 6 2013 5 32 4 1024 8 1 4 2 230
Fonepad 8 FE380CG 328 11 2014 8 64 8 1024 5 2 4 2 200
XDA Atom Exec 132 4 2012 4 32 8 1024 8 1 3 2 210
Idol 4 135 4 2016 5 256 16 2048 13 8 4 2 250
Rezound 170 6 2011 4 32 16 1024 8 2 3 2 160
V295 150 5 2014 5 32 8 1024 13 5 4 2 190
Honor 6A 143 4 2017 5 256 16 2048 13 5 4 2 150
Table 5. Normalized decision matrix for a small set of alternatives.
Ai C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12
A1 0.3841 0.3636 0.9990 0.6250 0.2500 0.1250 0.5000 0.8125 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.6136
A2 0.5427 0.5455 0.9985 0.6250 0.1250 0.0625 0.2500 0.5000 0.2500 1.0000 1.0000 0.5909
A3 0.5122 0.5455 0.9995 0.6250 1.0000 0.5000 0.7500 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.5000 0.0455
A4 0.4817 0.4545 0.9995 0.6250 0.1250 0.2500 0.5000 0.5000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.7500
A5 0.6494 0.4545 0.9990 0.5000 0.2500 0.1250 0.2500 0.5000 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.5909
A6 0.5396 0.5455 0.9995 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.0000
A7 0.0549 0.0909 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.2500 0.5000 0.3125 0.2500 1.0000 1.0000 0.7727
A8 0.5579 0.0000 0.9990 0.5000 0.1250 0.1250 0.2500 0.3125 0.2500 1.0000 1.0000 0.7045
A9 0.6646 0.7273 0.9990 0.6250 0.1250 0.1250 0.2500 0.8125 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.5455
A10 0.5122 0.5455 0.9995 0.6250 1.0000 0.5000 0.7500 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.5000 0.0455
A11 0.6037 0.6364 0.9980 0.5000 0.2500 0.1250 0.2500 0.5000 0.1250 1.0000 1.0000 0.3409
A12 0.4817 0.4545 0.9990 0.6250 1.0000 0.2500 0.5000 0.8125 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.1591
A13 0.5640 0.6364 1.0000 0.6250 1.0000 0.2500 0.5000 0.8125 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.6591
A14 0.4634 0.4545 0.9980 0.6250 0.1250 0.0625 0.2500 0.5000 0.1250 1.0000 1.0000 0.4773
A15 0.0000 0.0000 0.9985 1.0000 0.2500 0.1250 0.2500 0.3125 0.2500 1.0000 1.0000 0.5455
A16 0.5976 0.6364 0.9975 0.5000 0.1250 0.1250 0.2500 0.5000 0.1250 0.7500 1.0000 0.5227
A17 0.5884 0.6364 0.9995 0.6250 1.0000 0.2500 0.5000 0.8125 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.4318
A18 0.4817 0.4545 0.9970 0.5000 0.1250 0.2500 0.2500 0.5000 0.2500 0.7500 1.0000 0.6364
A19 0.5427 0.5455 0.9985 0.6250 0.1250 0.1250 0.2500 0.8125 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.5682
A20 0.5640 0.6364 1.0000 0.6250 1.0000 0.2500 0.5000 0.8125 0.6250 1.0000 1.0000 0.6591
Table 6 provides the ﬁnal rankings obtained in the evaluation process of 20 randomly
selected mobile phones models using ﬁve MCDM methods.

--- Page 23 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2214
Table 6. Final rankings obtained with MCDM methods for a small set of alternatives.
Ai TOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
A1 10 6 10 11 11
A2 14 14 14 14 14
A3 11.5 7.5 5.5 6.5 6.5
A4 7 9 8 9 9
A5 13 13 13 13 13
A6 1 4 1 1 1
A7 8 10 12 10 10
A8 18 18 19 17 17
A9 6 11 9 8 8
A10 11 7.5 5.5 6.5 6.5
A11 15 15 16 15 15
A12 5 5 7 5 5
A13 3.5 2.5 3.5 3.5 3.5
A14 16 16 18 16 16
A15 19 17 20 18 18
A16 17 19 17 19 19
A17 2 1 2 2 2
A18 20 20 15 20 20
A19 9 12 11 12 12
A20 3.5 2.5 3.5 3.5 3.5
A comparative analysis of the results obtained demonstrated that the four MCDM
methods, including TOPSIS-COMET, EDAS, MAIRCA, and MABAC, identiﬁed alternative
A6 (Zenfone 3 Deluxe 5.5 ZS550KL) as the rankings leader. This model is characterized by
very high, attractive and distinctive values of 7 proﬁt criteria, such as C5 (256 GB of the
memory card), C6 (64 GB of internal memory), C7 (4096 MB of RAM), C8 (Resolution of
primary camera equal to 16 Mpix ), C9 (Resolution of secondary camera equal to 8 Mpix ),
C10 (Version 4 of Bluetooth), andC11 (Version 2 of USB), among other evaluated alternatives.
Very favorable values for most of the relevant evaluation criteria resulted that the large
majority of MCDA methods used in this study indicated this mobile phone as the best
alternative despite the highest price among all evaluated models. Only in the ranking
received by the COCOSO method, the A6 alternative achieved fourth place.
In the ranking provided by the COCOSO method, alternative A17 (Idol 4) was ranked
ﬁrst. This mobile phone has very favorable and high values of 5 proﬁt criteria, such as
C5 (256 GB of the memory card), C8 (resolution of primary camera equal to 13 Mpix ), C9
(resolution of secondary camera equal to 8 Mpix ), C10 (version 4 of Bluetooth), and C11
(version 2 of USB), except that the value of criterion C8 is lower in the case of the model
A17 than for A6, which is the leader of the rankings provided by the other methods used
in this study. The Idol 4 (A17) has an advantage over the Zenfone 3 Deluxe 5.5 ZS550KL
(A6) on three cost criteria. The ﬁrst and second are C1 (weight in g) and C2 (weight in oz),
which is lower for the A17. The third cost criterion whose value is more attractive for A17 is
C12 (price). It is equal to 250 e for A17, while it is equal to 440 e for A6. Model A17 ranked
second in the rankings obtained with the other MCDM methods applied in this study.
There was a tie in the resulting rankings for alternatives A13 (1110i) and A20 (Honor
6A), which have identical values for all criteria. In the COCOSO rankings, these models
came in second, while in the other rankings, they came in third. In Figure 2 are visualized
values of the ranking similarity coefﬁcients rw and WS used to determine the convergence
of the rankings provided by all MCDM methods used in this study.

--- Page 24 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2215
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000030/uni00000048/uni00000057/uni0000004b/uni00000052/uni00000047/uni00000056
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037
/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032
/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000018
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000055/uni00000055/uni00000048/uni0000004f/uni00000044/uni00000057/uni0000004c/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni0000001d/uni00000003rw
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000030/uni00000048/uni00000057/uni0000004b/uni00000052/uni00000047/uni00000056
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037
/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032
/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000016/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000016/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000017
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001c/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001c/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000055/uni00000055/uni00000048/uni0000004f/uni00000044/uni00000057/uni0000004c/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni0000001d/uni00000003WS
Figure 2. Visualization of rankings correlation coefﬁcients rw and WS for each pair of MCDM method
for a small set of alternatives.
For the symmetrical rw coefﬁcient, the highest correlation values were observed
between the rankings provided by MAIRCA and EDAS and MABAC and EDAS (0.98).
On the other hand, the lowest correlation values were observed between the COCOSO
and TOPSIS-COMET rankings and EDAS and TOPSIS-COMET methods (0.90). The matrix
with rank correlation scores measured by rw is symmetrical because this coefﬁcient gives
the same result regardless of the order of the two rankings being compared.
The asymmetric WS correlation coefﬁcient is different because its value is affected
by order of the rankings being compared. The values of the asymmetrical rank similarity
coefﬁcient WS are high for most of the compared rankings. Their values are in the range of
0.98–1.00. The exception is the ranking obtained by the COCOSO method. The calculated
WS values for COCOSO and the other methods are contained in the range of 0.93–0.94.
The values of the asymmetrical WS coefﬁcient calculated for the cases of the other MCDM
methods used in this study and COCOSO are even lower, as they are 0.89. In the correlation
analysis of the rankings using rw and WS shown in Figure 2, symmetry in the results for
both coefﬁcients is observed in lower correlation values when comparing the obtained
rankings with the ranking provided by the COCOSO method. WS values are higher than
rw in most cases.
For rw, the best compromise rankings among the rankings determined by MCDM
methods are the rankings obtained by MAIRCA and MABAC methods because they have
the highest value of the minimum and average ranking similarity, which are 0.94 and 0.97,
respectively. For WS, the situation is similar. MAIRCA and MABAC rankings have the
highest average ranking similarity values of 0.97, accompanied by minimum values of 0.89.
Compromise Rankings Candidates and Their Sensitivity Analysis for the Little Set
The six compromise rankings candidates that were generated based on the proposed
approach are displayed in Table 7. The ﬁrst ranking is a compromise ranking created using
the Copeland technique based on the rankings provided by all the MCDM methods used
in this study. Subsequent compromise rankings were also created using the Copeland
technique but excluding one following MCDM method each. The names of the excluded
methods are included in the headings of the following columns of Table 7. It can be
observed that, in the compromise ranking constructed from all the MCDM methods used,
A6 is the leader. A17 is ranked second, and A20 is ranked third. These alternatives took the
same positions in the rankings of four of the ﬁve methods used, TOPSIS-COMET, EDAS,
MAIRCA, and MABAC.

--- Page 25 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2216
Table 7. Rank values for compromise ranking candidates with consideration of the little set.
Ai
Copeland Excluded Method Ranking
Rank TOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
A1 10 10 11 11 10 10
A2 14 14 14 14 14 14
A3 7 7 7 7 7 7
A4 9 8 9 9 8 8
A5 13 13 13 13 13 13
A6 1 2 1 2 2 2
A7 11 11 10 10 11 11
A8 17 17 17 17 17 17
A9 8 9 8 8 9 9
A10 6 6 6 6 6 6
A11 15 15 15 15 15 15
A12 5 5 5 5 5 5
A13 4 4 4 4 4 4
A14 16 16 16 16 16 16
A15 19 18 19 18 19 19
A16 18 19 18 19 18 18
A17 2 1 2 1 1 1
A18 20 20 20 20 20 20
A19 12 12 12 12 12 12
A20 3 3 3 3 3 3
Tables 8 and 9 display the values of the correlation coefﬁcients between the candidate
compromise rankings and the particular MCDM method rankings. The best match to the
rankings expressed by rw, provided by the methods used in the study, was obtained for
Rank 3 after eliminating the COCOSO ranking. Therefore, this candidate’s rounded mean
and minimum match values are 0.97 and 0.94, respectively.
Table 8. Values of similarity coefﬁcient rw for compromise ranking candidates with consideration of sample smartphones.
rw
Method Rank Mean MinTOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Rank 1 0.9334 0.9566 0.9803 0.9970 0.9970 0.9729 0.9334
Rank 2 0.9279 0.9689 0.9782 0.9928 0.9928 0.9721 0.9279
Rank 3 0.9366 0.9499 0.9773 0.9985 0.9985 0.9722 0.9366
Rank 4 0.9330 0.9588 0.9735 0.9961 0.9961 0.9715 0.9330
Rank 5 0.9287 0.9681 0.9793 0.9924 0.9924 0.9722 0.9287
Rank 6 0.9287 0.9681 0.9793 0.9924 0.9924 0.9722 0.9287
Table 9. Values of similarity coefﬁcient WS for compromise ranking candidates with consideration of sample smartphones.
W S Method Rank Mean MinTOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Rank 1 0.9843 0.8942 0.9882 0.9934 0.9934 0.9707 0.8942
Rank 2 0.9443 0.9596 0.9485 0.9527 0.9527 0.9515 0.9443
Rank 3 0.9842 0.8944 0.9880 0.9935 0.9935 0.9707 0.8944
Rank 4 0.9440 0.9595 0.9478 0.9533 0.9533 0.9516 0.9440
Rank 5 0.9443 0.9596 0.9485 0.9527 0.9527 0.9515 0.9443
Rank 6 0.9443 0.9596 0.9485 0.9527 0.9527 0.9515 0.9443

--- Page 26 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2217
For WS, the best match to all MCDM rankings in the form of the highest average
value of this coefﬁcient was observed for the compromise ranking created from all rankings
(Rank 1) and the compromise ranking built excluding COCOSO (Rank 3).
Tables 10 and 11 display the correlation values between all the compromise rankings
candidates created. All the calculated correlation values for each ranking combination
are high and similar to each other. It proves that the choice of methods to construct the
compromise rankings is not a problem in the presented case.
Table 10. Correlation matrix for rw values for compromise ranking candidates with consideration of
sample smartphones.
rw Rank 1 Rank 2 Rank 3 Rank 4 Rank 5 Rank 6
Rank 1 1.0000 0.9951 0.9985 0.9953 0.9954 0.9954
Rank 2 0.9951 1.0000 0.9936 0.9967 0.9996 0.9996
Rank 3 0.9985 0.9936 1.0000 0.9968 0.9939 0.9939
Rank 4 0.9953 0.9967 0.9968 1.0000 0.9963 0.9963
Rank 5 0.9954 0.9996 0.9939 0.9963 1.0000 1.0000
Rank 6 0.9954 0.9996 0.9939 0.9963 1.0000 1.0000
Table 11. Correlation matrix for WS values for compromise ranking candidates with consideration
of sample smartphones.
W S Rank 1 Rank 2 Rank 3 Rank 4 Rank 5 Rank 6
Rank 1 1.0000 0.9593 0.9999 0.9596 0.9593 0.9593
Rank 2 0.9593 1.0000 0.9591 0.9994 1.0000 1.0000
Rank 3 0.9999 0.9591 1.0000 0.9598 0.9591 0.9591
Rank 4 0.9596 0.9994 0.9598 1.0000 0.9994 0.9994
Rank 5 0.9593 1.0000 0.9591 0.9994 1.0000 1.0000
Rank 6 0.9593 1.0000 0.9591 0.9994 1.0000 1.0000
5.2. A Complete Set of 1039 Mobile Phones
The second stage of the study involved evaluating a complete set of alternatives
containing criteria values for 1093 selected mobile phone models. As in stage one, rankings
were prepared using the ﬁve MCDM methods used in this study. Then, the values of
correlation coefﬁcients rw and WS were calculated for the received rankings. Comparative
similarity analysis of the rankings of the different methods was then undertaken. The next
step was to determine candidate compromise rankings and perform sensitivity analysis for
them. Criteria weighting values for the complete set of evaluated alternatives determined
by the CRITIC method are included in Table 12.
Table 12. Criteria weights determined for the whole set of alternatives using the CRITIC method.
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12
0.10300 0.11423 0.11538 0.10305 0.11780 0.06481 0.03916 0.10286 0.03233 0.10192 0.07646 0.02895
The decision matrix with the criteria values for each alternative is provided inTable 13.
However, due to the large size of the matrix containing 1039 alternatives, only the ﬁrst
20 records of this matrix are displayed.
The decision matrix was normalized using the Minimum-Maximum normalization tech-
nique. For example, Table 14 displays the 20 head records of the normalized decision matrix.

--- Page 27 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2218
Table 13. Decision matrix for the whole set of alternatives.
Phones C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12
Iconia Talk S 260 9 2016 7 128 16 2048 13 2 4 2 170
Liquid Z6 Plus 169 5 2016 5 256 32 3072 13 5 4 2 250
Liquid X2 166 5 2015 5 32 32 3072 13 13 4 2 230
Liquid Zest 125 4 2016 5 32 8 1024 8 5 4 2 110
Predator 8 353 12 2015 8 256 32 2048 5 2 4 2 350
Liquid Jade Primo 150 5 2015 5 256 32 3072 21 8 4 3 220
Iconia Tab 10 A3-A30 540 1 2015 10 256 16 2048 5 2 4 2 250
Iconia Tab A3-A20 508 12 2014 10 256 16 1024 5 2 4 2 190
Iconia Tab A3-A20FHD 508 12 2014 10 256 32 2048 5 2 4 2 230
Liquid Jade Z 110 3 2015 5 32 8 1024 13 5 4 2 200
Liquid Z520 118 4 2015 5 32 8 1024 8 2 4 2 130
Liquid Z220 120 4 2015 4 32 8 1024 5 2 4 2 90
Liquid M220 119 4 2015 4 32 4 512 5 2 4 2 80
Liquid Z410 145 11 2015 4 32 8 1024 5 2 4 2 130
Liquid Jade S 116 9 2014 5 32 16 2048 13 5 4 2 200
Liquid Z500 150 5 2014 5 32 4 1024 8 2 4 2 150
Liquid X1 164 5 2014 5 32 16 2048 13 2 4 2 260
Liquid Jade 110 3 2014 5 32 8 1024 13 2 4 2 180
Liquid E700 155 5 2014 5 32 16 2048 8 2 4 2 200
Liquid E600 155 5 2014 5 32 4 1024 8 2 4 2 200
··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ···
Table 14. Normalized decision matrix for the whole set of alternatives.
Ai C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12
A1 0.6959 0.4000 0.9995 0.5833 0.2500 0.1250 0.1250 0.5417 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9721
A2 0.8023 0.6667 0.9995 0.4167 0.5000 0.2500 0.1875 0.5417 0.0012 1.0000 0.6667 0.9590
A3 0.8058 0.6667 0.9990 0.4167 0.0625 0.2500 0.1875 0.5417 0.0032 1.0000 0.6667 0.9623
A4 0.8538 0.7333 0.9995 0.4167 0.0625 0.0625 0.0625 0.3333 0.0012 1.0000 0.6667 0.9820
A5 0.5871 0.2000 0.9990 0.6667 0.5000 0.2500 0.1250 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9426
A6 0.8246 0.6667 0.9990 0.4167 0.5000 0.2500 0.1875 0.8750 0.0020 1.0000 1.0000 0.9639
A7 0.3684 0.9333 0.9990 0.8333 0.5000 0.1250 0.1250 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9590
A8 0.4058 0.2000 0.9985 0.8333 0.5000 0.1250 0.0625 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9688
A9 0.4058 0.2000 0.9985 0.8333 0.5000 0.2500 0.1250 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9623
A10 0.8713 0.8000 0.9990 0.4167 0.0625 0.0625 0.0625 0.5417 0.0012 1.0000 0.6667 0.9672
A11 0.8620 0.7333 0.9990 0.4167 0.0625 0.0625 0.0625 0.3333 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9787
A12 0.8596 0.7333 0.9990 0.3333 0.0625 0.0625 0.0625 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9852
A13 0.8608 0.7333 0.9990 0.3333 0.0625 0.0312 0.0312 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9869
A14 0.8304 0.2667 0.9990 0.3333 0.0625 0.0625 0.0625 0.2083 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9787
A15 0.8643 0.4000 0.9985 0.4167 0.0625 0.1250 0.1250 0.5417 0.0012 1.0000 0.6667 0.9672
A16 0.8246 0.6667 0.9985 0.4167 0.0625 0.0312 0.0625 0.3333 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9754
A17 0.8082 0.6667 0.9985 0.4167 0.0625 0.1250 0.1250 0.5417 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9574
A18 0.8713 0.8000 0.9985 0.4167 0.0625 0.0625 0.0625 0.5417 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9705
A19 0.8187 0.6667 0.9985 0.4167 0.0625 0.1250 0.1250 0.3333 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9672
A20 0.8187 0.6667 0.9985 0.4167 0.0625 0.0312 0.0625 0.3333 0.0005 1.0000 0.6667 0.9672
··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ···
Table 15 contains sample rankings for the complete set of alternatives derived using
the ﬁve MCDM methods.
In the rankings provided by TOPSIS-COMET, COCOSO, MAIRCA, and MABAC,
two alternatives, A120 (Zenfone 3 Deluxe ZS570KL) and A613 (KF510), came as the leaders.
Both models have the same values for all criteria considered in the evaluation process. In
addition, they have attractive and distinctive values of criteria C5 (256 GB of the memory
card), C6 (64 GB of internal memory), C8 (resolution of primary camera equal to 23 Mpix ),

--- Page 28 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2219
C10 (version 4 of Bluetooth), and C11 (version 3 of USB), among other alternatives available
in the evaluated set.
Table 15. Final rankings obtained with MCDM methods for the whole set of alternatives.
TOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Rank Alternatives Rank Alternatives Rank Alternatives Rank Alternatives Rank Alternatives
1.5 A120, A613 1.5 A120, A613 1.5 A59, A552 1.5 A120, A613 1.5 A120, A613
3.5 A107, A600 3.5 A591, A98 3.5 A412, A905 3.5 A591, A98 3.5 A591, A98
5.5 A260, A753 5.5 A107, A600 5.5 A413, A906 5.5 A107, A600 5.5 A107, A600
7.5 A419, A912 7.5 A305, A798 7.5 A591, A98 7.5 A305, A798 7.5 A305, A798
9.5 A591, A98 9.5 A912, A419 9.5 A276, A769 9.5 A912, A419 9.5 A912, A419
11.5 A798, A305 11.5 A412, A905 11 A6 11.5 A412, A905 11.5 A412, A905
13 A6 13 A6 12.5 A273, A766 13 A6 13 A6
14.5 A412, A905 14.5 A800, A307 14.5 A329, A822 14.5 A800, A307 14.5 A800, A307
16.5 A307, A800 16.5 A788, A295 16.5 A772, A279 16.5 A788, A295 16.5 A788, A295
18.5 A311, A804 18.5 A311, A804 18.5 A339, A832 18.5 A311, A804 18.5 A311, A804
20.5 A315, A808 20.5 A560, A67 20.5 A804, A311 20.5 A260, A753 20.5 A260, A753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The EDAS method identiﬁed alternatives A59 (Pop C3) and A552 (Phab Plus) as
ranking leaders. Both alternatives have favorable low cost criteria values of C1 (weight in
g) and C2 (weight in oz). Both phones have a desirable, highest value of gain criterion C9
(resolution of secondary camera equal to 4033 Mpix ) and a favorable value of C10 (version
4 of Bluetooth) among all evaluated alternatives. In addition, both mobile phones have
an extremely low price compared to the other alternatives (80 e ). Figure 3 visualizes the
values of the rank correlation coefﬁcients for the complete set of mobile phones obtained
using the MCDM methods used in the study.
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000030/uni00000048/uni00000057/uni0000004b/uni00000052/uni00000047/uni00000056
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037
/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032
/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001c/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000055/uni00000055/uni00000048/uni0000004f/uni00000044/uni00000057/uni0000004c/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni0000001d/uni00000003rw
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000030/uni00000048/uni00000057/uni0000004b/uni00000052/uni00000047/uni00000056
/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000033/uni00000036/uni0000002c/uni00000036/uni00000010/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000030/uni00000028/uni00000037
/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000026/uni00000032/uni00000036/uni00000032
/uni00000028/uni00000027/uni00000024/uni00000036
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni0000002c/uni00000035/uni00000026/uni00000024
/uni00000030/uni00000024/uni00000025/uni00000024/uni00000026
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni00000015/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001b/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni00000017/uni00000015/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni00000018/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni00000018/uni0000001b
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001b/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni0000001b/uni0000001b/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000013
/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000055/uni00000055/uni00000048/uni0000004f/uni00000044/uni00000057/uni0000004c/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni0000001d/uni00000003WS
Figure 3. Visualization of rankings correlation coefﬁcients rw and WS for each pair of MCDM method
for the whole set of alternatives.
For the symmetrical correlation coefﬁcient rw, the lowest correlation values were
observed for rank comparisons obtained by the EDAS method (0.90). However, the cor-
relation values were much higher for comparisons between the other MCDM methods,
between 0.98 and 1.00.
The lowest correlation values (0.42–0.58) noticed in comparisons of the ranking re-
ceived using the EDAS method with the other rankings were also noted for the asymmet-
rical Rank Similarity Coefﬁcient WS. However, for the remaining comparisons between
rankings, the WS value was 1.00, indicating a linear correlation.
In the correlation study of the MCDM rankings considering the complete set of
alternatives, it can be clearly observed that, for both rw and WS, the lowest similarity
values occur for the comparison of EDAS results with other methods.

--- Page 29 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2220
Compromise Rankings Candidates and Their Sensitivity Analysis for the Whole Set
Table 16 lists the six rankings that are candidates for the compromise ranking created
analogously to the small phones dataset. The A591 alternative was indicated as the most
advantageous mobile phone model by ﬁve compromise ranking candidates. However, it
received third place only in the compromise ranking candidate constructed without EDAS.
Table 16. Rank values for compromise ranking candidates with consideration of the whole dataset.
Ai
Copeland Excluded Method Ranking
Rank TOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
A591 1 1 1 3 1 1
A98 2 2 2 5 2 2
A905 3 3 3 11 4 4
A412 4 4 4 12 3 3
A6 5 5 5 13 5 5
A804 6 7 6 21 6 6
A311 7 6 7 20 7 7
A906 8 8 8 22 8 8
A413 9 9 9 23 9 9
A766 10 10 11 29 11 11
A273 11 11 10 28 10 10
A613 12 20 18 1 19 19
A120 13 21 19 2 18 18
A558 14 12 14 38 14 14
A65 15 13 15 39 15 15
A808 16 16 12 36 13 13
A315 17 17 13 37 12 12
A305 18 24 26 8 26 26
A798 19 25 27 7 27 27
A419 20 31 30 9 30 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tables 17 and 18 contain the values of the similarity coefﬁcients between compromise
ranking candidates and the rankings obtained using the particular MCDM methods.
Table 17. Values of similarity coefﬁcient rw for candidate compromise rankings with consideration of the whole dataset.
rw
Method Rank Mean MinTOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Rank 1 0.992 0.9844 0.9389 0.9946 0.9946 0.9809 0.9389
Rank 2 0.9874 0.9845 0.9471 0.9912 0.9912 0.9803 0.9471
Rank 3 0.9915 0.9762 0.9446 0.9936 0.9936 0.9799 0.9446
Rank 4 0.997 0.9875 0.9044 0.9988 0.9988 0.9773 0.9044
Rank 5 0.9887 0.9841 0.9463 0.9915 0.9915 0.9804 0.9463
Rank 6 0.9887 0.9841 0.9463 0.9915 0.9915 0.9804 0.9463
For the correlation coefficientrw, the best matches to rankings from particular MCDM
methods were recorded for the candidate rankings, excluding the TOPSIS-COMET (Rank 2),
MAIRCA (Rank 5), and MABAC (Rank 6) methods. In the mentioned cases, the average
and minimum match values for the rankings obtained from each MCDM method were 0.98
and 0.95, respectively. For the WS similarity coefﬁcient value, the best match to rankings
from particular MCDM methods was demonstrated by as many as ﬁve rankings: Rank 1,
in which a candidate compromise ranking was created considering all the MCDM methods
used in the study, Rank 2, Rank 3, Rank 5, and Rank 6. In their case, the average matching
value for the rankings from each MCDM method is 0.995, and the minimum is 0.991. On

--- Page 30 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2221
the other hand, the worst matching in terms of lowest average (0.972) and minimum WS
value (0.864) was recorded for Rank 4, in which EDAS was excluded.
Table 18. Values of similarity coefﬁcient WS for candidate compromise rankings with consideration of the whole dataset.
W S Method Rank Mean MinTOPSIS-COMET COCOSO EDAS MAIRCA MABAC
Rank 1 0.9914 0.9963 0.9949 0.9963 0.9963 0.99504 0.9914
Rank 2 0.9914 0.9963 0.9949 0.9963 0.9963 0.99504 0.9914
Rank 3 0.9914 0.9963 0.9949 0.9963 0.9963 0.99504 0.9914
Rank 4 0.9986 0.9994 0.8637 0.9994 0.9994 0.9721 0.8637
Rank 5 0.9914 0.9963 0.9949 0.9963 0.9963 0.99504 0.9914
Rank 6 0.9914 0.9963 0.9949 0.9963 0.9963 0.99504 0.9914
Tables 19 and 20 contain the correlation values between all the candidate compromise
rankings constructed. It can be observed that the correlation values between the compro-
mise rankings are high and similar to each other, which means that all the MCDM methods
used in this study are suitable for compromise ranking.
Table 19. Correlation matrix for rw values for candidate compromise rankings with consideration of
the whole dataset.
rw Rank 1 Rank 2 Rank 3 Rank 4 Rank 5 Rank 6
Rank 1 1.0000 0.9994 0.9990 0.9957 0.9996 0.9996
Rank 2 0.9994 1.0000 0.9983 0.9929 0.9998 0.9998
Rank 3 0.9990 0.9983 1.0000 0.9931 0.9986 0.9986
Rank 4 0.9957 0.9929 0.9931 1.0000 0.9933 0.9933
Rank 5 0.9996 0.9998 0.9986 0.9933 1.0000 1.0000
Rank 6 0.9996 0.9998 0.9986 0.9933 1.0000 1.0000
Table 20. Correlation matrix for WS values for candidate compromise rankings with consideration
of the whole dataset.
W S Rank 1 Rank 2 Rank 3 Rank 4 Rank 5 Rank 6
Rank 1 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.9962 0.9998 0.9998
Rank 2 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.9962 0.9998 0.9998
Rank 3 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 0.9962 0.9998 0.9998
Rank 4 0.9893 0.9825 0.9843 1.0000 0.9841 0.9841
Rank 5 0.9998 0.9998 0.9998 0.9961 1.0000 1.0000
Rank 6 0.9998 0.9998 0.9998 0.9961 1.0000 1.0000
6. Discussion
An essential aspect of this paper was to develop an approach that would provide a
ranking recommendation of products with selected criteria in an objective and completely
automated way, without involving the decision-maker in the evaluation process. In gen-
eral, subjective estimates of criteria importance are established following the opinions
of decision-makers. The resulting weights are, thus, subjective inputs in analyses such
as. There are several methods (e.g., Simple Multi-Attribute Rating Technique (SMART),
SIMOS, Revised SIMOS, SWING, Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), Best-Worst Method
(BWM), Pairwise Comparison Method, and Delphi method) that establish the weights
solely following the choices of the decision-makers. When subjective weighting methods
determine weights, the results of the analysis or the rankings of the evaluated alternatives
are affected by the level of knowledge and experience of the decision-maker in the ﬁeld
because then the weights represent the subjective evaluation of the decision-maker [55].

--- Page 31 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2222
Weights determined subjectively can lead to concerns about the reliability of the results
obtained [58]. The CRITIC method guarantees that the weights of the criteria determined in
an entirely objective manner are obtained, eliminating the problem of the subjective view-
point of the decision-maker. Although the types of criteria are not considered in the CRITIC
method, MCDM methods separately consider proﬁt and cost criteria in the problem.
The MCDM methods used in this work are characterized by ease of use, clarity of
algorithms, and good adaptation to real-world problems [47]. So, they can be easily applied
to many solutions of real choice problems. They are based on a decision matrix that is
simple and intuitive to create from most data sets. The number of criteria and alternatives
is not limited in any way [ 57]. Thus, the proposed approach fulﬁls the requirements of
objectivity, automatic performance and simplicity of application that a consumer decision
support DSS should characterize. The designed DSS is effective, as proven by its ability
to be simple and smoothly applied to both a small (20 alternatives) and many evaluated
alternatives, such as 1039.
The rankings obtained using the methods presented in the paper show that, in most
cases, the recommendation of a particular mobile phone model is determined by distinctive
functionalities and high-level parameters. This observation is consistent with the fact
that, today, phones are not only used for calling. Generally, following trends, people will
also want to choose the most recent models. Therefore, they can also look for models
with parameters similar to ﬂagship models of famous brands, but with a more affordable
price [34]. As a result of being equipped with high-resolution cameras, multiple ways of
communication, music, games and business applications, mobile phones have become an
indispensable part of people’s lives. However, the comfort of their use and functionality
depends on the high level of technical parameters [69]. Besides, a mobile phone is bought
with a view to its long-term use. Therefore, the amount invested in a better model will
proﬁt from its advantages.
Investigating the correlation of rankings for the whole set of alternatives and the
20 alternatives randomly selected from it generated different results. For the complete
set, the lowest correlation values were observed for the rank comparisons provided by
the EDAS method. These values were lower for the WS coefﬁcient than rw. For a small
set of random alternatives, the differences in both correlation coefﬁcients values were
not as signiﬁcant. Thus, it can be deduced that the WS coefﬁcient is characterized by
higher volatility concerning the ranking size. This phenomenon can be justiﬁed because
the highest positions in the rankings are, therefore, more inﬂuenced by their similarity
than the more distant ones, which is valid in decision problems [ 44]. Thus, the value
of the WS coefﬁcient is related strictly to the position at which the ranking divergence
appeared [110]. This occurrence is reasoned because rankings are established to select the
best possible solution, i.e., the one at the top of the ranking [112]. The WS values decrease
in correspondence with a progressive decrease in the quality of the rankings as the best
solution moves away from the top of the rankings. This variability for the rw coefﬁcient is
not as signiﬁcant. It is evidenced by the lower range of changes in its value for the rankings
compared in this study. The results derived from the rank correlation study conﬁrm that
WS coefﬁcient is asymmetrical instead of rw [78].
Even if all MCDM methods have proven robustness and algorithmic efﬁciency, their
application may lead to different solutions to the same problem. For this reason, a frame-
work that integrates the rankings obtained using several MCDM methods into a reliable
compromise ranking is recommended. Each of the MCDM methods then contributes signif-
icantly to the ﬁnal compromise ranking. As a result, a DSS recommending a compromise
solution helps make more considered decisions than relying on the ranking provided by a
single method [47,75].
7. Conclusions and Future Research Directions
This paper aimed to present a developed future-proof MCDM based universal de-
cision support system for the e-commerce sector and product comparison websites to

--- Page 32 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2223
recommend the most advantageous product considering multiple selection criteria. A
unique advantage of the designed system is the complete automation of the assessment
process, the application of innovative MCDM methods: TOPSIS-COMET, COCOSO, EDAS,
MAIRCA, and MABAC, whose effectiveness, literature studies conﬁrm adequacy and
usefulness in the product selection problem, the objectivity of the provided results, the
possibility of using them to evaluate any products. The rankings provided by the MCDM
methods used are then integrated by the Copeland strategy, which results in a reliable
compromise ranking created from the MCDM methods applied. By incorporating MCDM
methods based on different methodological assumptions into the solution, the proposed
DSS recommends a solution that is a real compromise and is compatible with all methods
involved in its determination. A sensitivity analysis based on two measures of match
compromise rankings candidates, rw and WS, conﬁrms the high match of each candidate
to the rankings given by each MCDM.
Results are presented ﬁrst on a sample set of twenty mobile phones randomly selected
from a set containing 1039 alternatives and then on the whole set. As a result, for a set of
twenty alternatives, as many as four of the ﬁve MCDM methods used indicated the best
alternative the same mobile phone model, Zenfone 3 Deluxe 5.5 ZS550KL (A6). One of the
methods used, COCOSO, identiﬁed another model as the ranking leader. That alternative
was the Idol 4 (A17), which came in second in the rankings of the other four methods. In
the compromise ranking created from the results from all the MCDM methods used, A6
is the leader of the ranking, followed by A17 in second place and A20 (Honor 6A) in third
place. When evaluating the complete set of alternatives, the leader of the trade-off ranking
considering solutions from all MCDM methods is A591 (GM730 Eigen), followed by A98
(Diamond 2 Plus) in second place and A905 (6085) in third place.
The obtained outcomes demonstrate that selecting the most suitable mobile phone is
a challenging task. One has to face many alternatives that are characterized by different pa-
rameters. Therefore, direct comparisons would take too long and might not be meaningful
due to different value scales and parameter units. However, the performed study proved
that MCDM methods show potential to be successfully used to solve this problem. With a
proper selection of criteria, they can provide a reliable ranking.
For the rankings provided by the methods used in the study, the values of correlation
coefﬁcients rw and WS are high. However, only for the whole set of evaluated alternatives,
the ranking obtained by the EDAS method shows low values of correlation with the
other rankings in terms of the value of asymmetrical WS coefﬁcient. This phenomenon
results from the properties of the WS coefﬁcient, which is featured by a higher variability,
depending on the ranking size.
The ﬁnal recommendation in the form of a compromise ranking created from the
solutions of the ﬁve MCDM methods solves the problem of inconsistent results caused
by the different methodological assumptions of each method. The resulting DSS recom-
mendation helps make more informed purchasing decisions that require consideration of
multiple criteria.
The results presented make it easier to choose among the many alternatives available
in the market. Furthermore, the MCDM methods, despite the presence of inequalities
among the criterion values, ﬁnally enabled the generation of a reliable ranking. The
obtained outcomes indicate that a consumer decision support system based on MCDM
methods could be a valuable and useful option to support online e-commerce and product
comparison services. It could also help increase the competitiveness and technological
sophistication of the outlets offering them and differentiate themselves in the market. The
DSS presented in this paper is a prototype, so the practical beneﬁts for e-commerce sites
and customers could be investigated after its implementation by measuring the number of
transactions and questionnaires as a measure of customer satisfaction. Directions for further
work may include exploring other MCDM methods to select a set of methods that produce
the most similar results, especially at the top of the rankings. Other directions for additional

--- Page 33 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2224
research should include exploring other strategies that provide a compromise solution and
investigating other methods for selecting the best candidate for the compromise solution.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; methodology, A.B., B.K.,
A.S., J.W. and W.S.; software, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; validation, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.;
formal analysis, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; investigation, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; resources,
A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; data curation, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; writing—original draft
preparation, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; writing—review and editing, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and
W.S.; supervision, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S.; project administration, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and
W.S.; funding acquisition, A.B., B.K., A.S., J.W. and W.S. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: The work was supported by the National Science Center, Decision number UMO-2018/29
/B/HS4/02725 (B.K., A.S. and W.S.) and by the project ﬁnanced within the framework of the program
of the Minister of Science and Higher Education under the name “Regional Excellence Initiative” in
the years 2019–2022, Project Number 001/RID/2018/19; the amount of ﬁnancing: PLN 10.684.00000
(A.B. and J.W.).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: The authors would like to thank the editor and the anonymous reviewers, whose
insightful comments and constructive suggestions helped us to signiﬁcantly improve the quality of
this paper.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:
AHP Analytic Hierarchy Process
ANN Artiﬁcial Neural Network
ARAS Additive Ratio Assessment
BWM Best-Worst Method
COCOSO COmbined COmpromise SOlution
CODAS COmbinative Distance-based ASsessment
COMET Characteristic Objects METhod
CPU Central Processing Unit
CRITIC Criteria Importance Through Inter-criteria Correlation
DNN Deep Neural Networks
DSS Decision Support Systems
EDAS Evaluation based on Distance from Average Solution
ELECTRE ÉLimination et Choix Traduisant la REalité
EWP Exponentially Weighted Product
MABAC Multiattribute Boundary Approximation Area Comparison
MARICA Multi-Attributive Real- Ideal Comparative Analysis
MAUT MultiAttribute Utility Theory
MCDM Multiple Criteria Decision-Making
ML Machine Learning
MULTIMOORA full Multiplicative form Multiple Objective Optimization
on the basis of Ratio Analysis
OR-IDSS Operations Research-based Intelligent Decision Support System
OS Operating System
PROMETHEE Preference Ranking Organization Method for Enrichment Evaluations
RAM Random Access Memory
RS Recommender Systems

--- Page 34 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2225
SAW Simple Additive Weighting
TOPSIS Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution
VIKOR Vise Kriterijumska Optimizacija I Kompromisno Resenje
WASPAS step wise Weight assessment ratio analysis
WS coefﬁcient Weighted Similarity coefﬁcient
References
1. Efe, B.; Yerlikaya, M.A.; Efe, Ö.F. Mobile phone selection based on a novel quality function deployment approach. Soft Comput.
2020, 24, 15447–15461. [CrossRef]
2. Lei, N.; Moon, S.K. A Decision Support System for market-driven product positioning and design. Decis. Support Syst. 2015,
69, 82–91. [CrossRef]
3. Deb, K.; Chatterjee, R.P .; Banerjee, S.; Bag, R.; Das, A. Mobile Phone Ranking by Analytical Hierarchical Process: A Case Study.
Int. J. Inf. Eng. Electron. Bus. 2018, 11, 52. [CrossRef]
4. W ˛ atróbski, J.; Jankowski, J.; Ziemba, P .; Karczmarczyk, A.; Zioło, M. Generalised framework for multi-criteria method selection.
Omega 2019, 86, 107–124. [CrossRef]
5. Goswami, S.; Mitra, S. Selecting the best mobile model by applying AHP-COPRAS and AHP-ARAS decision making methodology.
Int. J. Data Netw. Sci. 2020, 4, 27–42. [CrossRef]
6. Chen, I.F.; Tsaur, R.C.; Chen, P .Y. Selection of Best Smartphone using revised ELECTRE-III method.Int. J. Inf. Technol. Decis. Mak.
2018, 17, 1915–1936. [CrossRef]
7. Singh, R.; Avikal, S.; Rashmi, R.; Ram, M. A Kano model, AHP and TOPSIS based approach for selecting the best mobile phone
under a fuzzy environment. Int. J. Qual. Reliab. Manag. 2020, 37, 837–851. [CrossRef]
8. Kumar, G.; Parimala, N. An integration of sentiment analysis and MCDM approach for smartphone recommendation. Int. J. Inf.
Technol. Decis. Mak. 2020, 19, 1037–1063. [CrossRef]
9. Natasya, W.A.G.; Kusnawi, K. Decision support system design to decide on the latest smartphone using analytical hierarchy
process. In Proceedings of the 2017 2nd International conferences on Information Technology, Information Systems and Electrical
Engineering (ICITISEE), Yogyakarta, Indonesia, 1–2 November 2017; pp. 456–461.
10. Aggarwal, A.; Choudhary, C.; Mehrotra, D. Evaluation of smartphones in Indian market using EDAS. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2018,
132, 236–243. [CrossRef]
11. Kumar, S.; Kumar, T.A.; Agrawal, S.; Singh, S.K. Research Methodology: Prioritization of New Smartphones Using TOPSIS and
MOORA. In Proceedings of the International Conference of Advance Research & Innovation (ICARI), Delhi, India, 19 January 2020.
12. Mishra, A.R.; Garg, A.K.; Purwar, H.; Rana, P .; Liao, H.; Mardani, A. An extended intuitionistic fuzzy multi-attributive border
approximation area comparison approach for smartphone selection using discrimination measures. Informatica 2021, 32, 119–143.
[CrossRef]
13. Musrini, M.; Umaroh, S.; Al Ariﬁn, A. Desicion support system using topsis method for smartphone selection. In Proceedings of
the 2nd Faculty of Industrial Technology International Congress International Conference (FoITIC 2020), Bandung, Indonesia,
28–30 January 2020; pp. 270–276.
14. Okfalisa, O.; Rusnedy, H.; Iswavigra, D.U.; Pranggono, B.; Haerani, E.; Saktioto, T. Decision support system for smartphone
recommendation: The comparison of fuzzy AHP and fuzzy ANP in multi-attribute decision making. SINERGI 2021, 25, 101–110.
[CrossRef]
15. Sutton, R.T.; Pincock, D.; Baumgart, D.C.; Sadowski, D.C.; Fedorak, R.N.; Kroeker, K.I. An overview of clinical decision support
systems: Beneﬁts, risks, and strategies for success. NPJ Digit. Med. 2020, 3, 1–10. [CrossRef]
16. Acosta, M.; Corral, S. Multicriteria decision analysis and participatory decision support systems in forest management. Forests
2017, 8, 116. [CrossRef]
17. Alyoubi, B.A. Decision support system and knowledge-based strategic management. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2015, 65, 278–284.
[CrossRef]
18. Vertakova, Y.; Mkrtchyan, V .; Leontyev, E. Information provision of decision support systems in conditions of structural changes
and digitalization of the economy. J. Appl. Eng. Sci. 2019, 17, 74–80.
19. Cánovas-Segura, B.; Campos, M.; Morales, A.; Juarez, J.M.; Palacios, F. Development of a clinical decision support system for
antibiotic management in a hospital environment. Prog. Artif. Intell. 2016, 5, 181–197. [CrossRef]
20. Lahav, O.; Mastronarde, N.; van der Schaar, M. What is interpretable? using machine learning to design interpretable decision-
support systems. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1811.10799.
21. Shoja, B.M.; Tabrizi, N. Customer reviews analysis with deep neural networks for e-commerce recommender systems.IEEE Access
2019, 7, 119121–119130. [CrossRef]
22. Baryannis, G.; Dani, S.; Validi, S.; Antoniou, G. Decision support systems and artiﬁcial intelligence in supply chain risk
management. In Revisiting Supply Chain Risk; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; pp. 53–71.
23. Jahani, A.; Feghhi, J.; Makhdoum, M.F.; Omid, M. Optimized forest degradation model (OFDM): An environmental decision
support system for environmental impact assessment using an artiﬁcial neural network. J. Environ. Plan. Manag. 2016, 59, 222–244.
[CrossRef]

--- Page 35 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2226
24. Zong, K.; Yuan, Y.; Montenegro-Marin, C.E.; Kadry, S.N. Or-based intelligent decision support system for e-commerce. J. Theor.
Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16, 1150–1164. [CrossRef]
25. Goguen, J. LA Zadeh. Fuzzy sets. Information and control, vol. 8 (1965), pp. 338–353.-LA Zadeh. Similarity relations and fuzzy
orderings. Information sciences, vol. 3 (1971), pp. 177–200. J. Symb. Log. 1973, 38, 656–657. [CrossRef]
26. Yadegaridehkordi, E.; Nilashi, M.; Shuib, L.; Asadi, S.; Ibrahim, O. Development of a SaaS adoption decision-making model
using a new hybrid MCDM approach. Int. J. Inf. Technol. Decis. Mak. 2019, 18, 1845–1874. [CrossRef]
27. Zhang, Y.; Abbas, H.; Sun, Y. Smart e-commerce integration with recommender systems. Electron. Mark. 2019, 29, 219–220.
[CrossRef]
28. Alamdari, P .M.; Navimipour, N.J.; Hosseinzadeh, M.; Safaei, A.A.; Darwesh, A. A systematic study on the recommender systems
in the E-commerce. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 115694–115716. [CrossRef]
29. Razmak, J.; Aouni, B. Decision Support System and Multi-Criteria Decision Aid: A State of the Art and Perspectives. J. Multi-
Criteria Decis. Anal. 2015, 22, 101–117. [CrossRef]
30. B ˛ aczkiewicz, A.; Watrobski, J.; Sałabun, W. Towards MCDA Based Decision Support System Addressing Sustainable Assessment. 2021.
Available online: https://aisel.aisnet.org/isd2014/proceedings2021/sustainable/6/ (accessed on 1 September 2021).
31. Kizielewicz, B.; Wi˛ eckowski, J.; Shekhovtsov, A.; W ˛ atróbski, J.; Depczy ´ nski, R.; Sałabun, W. Study Towards The Time-based Mcda
Ranking Analysis—A Supplier Selection Case Study. In Facta Universitatis, Series: Mechanical Engineering; University of Niš: Niš,
Serbia, 2021.
32. Khademolqorani, S.; Hamadani, A.Z. An adjusted decision support system through data mining and multiple criteria decision
making. Procedia-Soc. Behav. Sci. 2013, 73, 388–395. [CrossRef]
33. Stanujkic, D.; Zavadskas, E.K.; Ghorabaee, M.K.; Turskis, Z. An extension of the EDAS method based on the use of interval grey
numbers. Stud. Inform. Control 2017, 26, 5–12. [CrossRef]
34. Yazdani, M.; Chatterjee, P .; Montero-Simo, M.J.; Araque-Padilla, R.A. An integrated multi-attribute model for evaluation of
sustainable mobile phone. Sustainability 2019, 11, 3704. [CrossRef]
35. Behzadian, M.; Otaghsara, S.K.; Yazdani, M.; Ignatius, J. A state-of the-art survey of TOPSIS applications. Expert Syst. Appl. 2012,
39, 13051–13069. [CrossRef]
36. Kuo, T. A modiﬁed TOPSIS with a different ranking index. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2017, 260, 152–160. [CrossRef]
37. Žižovi´ c, M.; Pamuˇ car, D.; Albijani´ c, M.; Chatterjee, P .; Pribi´ cevi´ c, I. Eliminating rank reversal problem using a new multi-attribute
model—The RAFSI method. Mathematics 2020, 8, 1015. [CrossRef]
38. Dezert, J.; Tchamova, A.; Han, D.; Tacnet, J.M. The SPOTIS rank reversal free method for multi-criteria decision-making support.
In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE 23rd International Conference on Information Fusion (FUSION), Rustenburg, South Africa, 6–9
July 2020; pp. 1–8.
39. Sałabun, W. The Characteristic Objects Method: A New Distance-based Approach to Multicriteria Decision-making Problems.
J. Multi-Criteria Decis. Anal. 2015, 22, 37–50. [CrossRef]
40. Kizielewicz, B.; Dobryakova, L. MCDA based approach to sports players’ evaluation under incomplete knowledge. Procedia
Comput. Sci. 2020, 176, 3524–3535. [CrossRef]
41. Kizielewicz, B.; Dobryakova, L. How to choose the optimal single-track vehicle to move in the city? Electric scooters study case.
Procedia Comput. Sci. 2020, 176, 2243–2253. [CrossRef]
42. Sałabun, W.; Palczewski, K.; W ˛ atróbski, J. Multicriteria approach to sustainable transport evaluation under incomplete knowledge:
Electric bikes case study. Sustainability 2019, 11, 3314. [CrossRef]
43. Sałabun, W.; Karczmarczyk, A. Using the comet method in the sustainable city transport problem: An empirical study of the
electric powered cars. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2018, 126, 2248–2260. [CrossRef]
44. Shekhovtsov, A.; Kołodziejczyk, J.; Sałabun, W. Fuzzy Model Identiﬁcation Using Monolithic and Structured Approaches in
Decision Problems with Partially Incomplete Data. Symmetry 2020, 12, 1541. [CrossRef]
45. Yazdani, M.; Zarate, P .; Zavadskas, E.K.; Turskis, Z. A Combined Compromise Solution (CoCoSo) method for multi-criteria
decision-making problems. Manag. Decis. 2019, 57, 2501–2519. [CrossRef]
46. Khan, S.; Haleem, A. Investigation of circular economy practices in the context of emerging economies: A CoCoSo approach.
Int. J. Sustain. Eng. 2021, 1–11. [CrossRef]
47. Ecer, F. A consolidated MCDM framework for performance assessment of battery electric vehicles based on ranking strategies.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021, 143, 110916. [CrossRef]
48. Yazdani, M.; Chatterjee, P . Intelligent decision making tools in manufacturing technology selection. In Futuristic Composites;
Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2018; pp. 113–126.
49. Wen, Z.; Liao, H.; Mardani, A.; Al-Barakati, A. A hesitant fuzzy linguistic combined compromise solution method for multiple
criteria decision making. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Management Science and Engineering Management,
Chisinau, Moldova, 30 July–2 August 2020; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; pp. 813–821.
50. Zolfani, S.H.; Chatterjee, P .; Yazdani, M. A structured framework for sustainable supplier selection using a combined BWM-
CoCoSo model. In Proceedings of the International Scientiﬁc Conference in Business, Management and Economics Engineering,
Vilnius, Lithuania, 9–10 May 2019; Vilnius Gediminas Technical University: Vilnius, Lithuania, 2019. [CrossRef]

--- Page 36 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2227
51. Zolfani, S.H.; Ecer, F.; Pamuˇ car, D.; Raslanas, S. Neighborhood selection for a newcomer via a novel BWM-based revised MAIRCA
integrated model: A case from the Coquimbo-La Serena conurbation, Chile. Int. J. Strateg. Prop. Manag. 2020, 24, 102–118.
[CrossRef]
52. Pamuˇ car, D.; Vasin, L.; Lukovac, L. Selection of railway level crossings for investing in security equipment using hybrid
DEMATEL-MAIRCA model. In Proceedings of the XVI International Scientiﬁc-Expert Conference on Railway, Railcon, Niš,
Serbia, 9–10 October 2014; pp. 89–92.
53. Aksoy, E. An Analysis on Turkey’s Merger and Acquisition Activities: MAIRCA Method. Gümü¸ shane Üniversitesi Sos. Bilim.
Enstitüsü Elektron. Derg. 2021, 12, 1–11.
54. Sari, F.; Kandemir, ˙I.; Ceylan, D.A.; Gül, A. Using AHP and PROMETHEE multi-criteria decision making methods to deﬁne
suitable apiary locations. J. Apic. Res. 2020, 59, 546–557. [CrossRef]
55. Yalcin, N.; Ünlü, U. A multi-criteria performance analysis of Initial Public Offering (IPO) ﬁrms using CRITIC and VIKOR
methods. Technol. Econ. Dev. Econ. 2018, 24, 534–560. [CrossRef]
56. Diakoulaki, D.; Mavrotas, G.; Papayannakis, L. Determining objective weights in multiple criteria problems: The CRITIC method.
Comput. Oper. Res. 1995, 22, 763–770. [CrossRef]
57. Tu¸ s, A.; Adalı, E.A. The new combination with CRITIC and WASPAS methods for the time and attendance software selection
problem. Opsearch 2019, 56, 528–538. [CrossRef]
58. Kazan, H.; Ozdemir, O. Financial performance assessment of large scale conglomerates via TOPSIS and CRITIC methods. Int. J.
Manag. Sustain. 2014, 3, 203–224.
59. Madic, M.; Radovanovi´ c, M. Ranking of some most commonly used nontraditional machining processes using ROV and CRITIC
methods. UPB Sci. Bull. Ser. D 2015, 77, 193–204.
60. Zandi, I.; Pahlavani, P .; Bigdeli, B. Combining CRITIC Objective Weighting Method with CODAS and VIKOR Methods for
Selecting Prospect Hospital Sites (Case Study: District 5 of Tehran). Geogr. Urban Space Dev. 2021,
61. Adalı, E.A.; I¸ sık, A.T. CRITIC and MAUT methods for the contract manufacturer selection problem.Eur. J. Multidiscip. Stud.
2017, 2, 93–101. [CrossRef]
62. Keshavarz Ghorabaee, M.; Amiri, M.; Kazimieras Zavadskas, E.; Antucheviˇ cien˙e, J. Assessment of third-party logistics providers
using a CRITIC–WASPAS approach with interval type-2 fuzzy sets. Transport 2017, 32, 66–78. [CrossRef]
63. Yang, M.; Zhou, X.; Xie, R.F.; GU, J.H.; Gu, X.J. Application of Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) Combined with CRITIC to
Studying Weighted Coefﬁcient of Multiple Criteria for Optimization of Extraction Technology of Compound Zishenqing Granules.
Pharm. Care Res. 2009, 1. Available online: https://en.cnki.com.cn/Article_en/CJFDTotal-YXFY200901012.htm. (accessed on 15
July 2021).
64. Mishra, A.R.; Rani, P .; Pandey, K. Fermatean fuzzy CRITIC-EDAS approach for the selection of sustainable third-party reverse
logistics providers using improved generalized score function. J. Ambient. Intell. Humaniz. Comput. 2021, 1–17.
65. Peng, X.; Zhang, X.; Luo, Z. Pythagorean fuzzy MCDM method based on CoCoSo and CRITIC with score function for 5G industry
evaluation. Artif. Intell. Rev. 2019, 1–35. [CrossRef]
66. Peng, X.; Huang, H. Fuzzy decision making method based on CoCoSo with CRITIC for ﬁnancial risk evaluation. Technol. Econ.
Dev. Econ. 2020, 26, 695–724. [CrossRef]
67. Baidya, J.; Garg, H.; Saha, A.; Mishra, A.R.; Rani, P .; Dutta, D. Selection of third party reverses logistic providers: An approach of
BCF-CRITIC-MULTIMOORA using Archimedean power aggregation operators. Complex Intell. Syst. 2021, 1–28.
68. Goswami, S.S.; Behera, D.K. An Analysis for Selecting Best Smartphone Model by AHP-TOPSIS Decision-Making Methodology.
Int. J. Serv. Sci. Manag. Eng. Technol. (IJSSMET) 2021, 12, 116–137.
69. Rani, P .; Mishra, A.R.; Ansari, M.D. Analysis of smartphone selection problem under interval-valued intuitionistic fuzzy ARAS
and TOPSIS methods. In Proceedings of the 2019 Fifth International Conference on Image Information Processing (ICIIP), Shimla,
India, 15–17 November 2019; pp. 509–514.
70. Ansari, N. Smartphone Selection Using Analytic Hierarchy Process. 2016. Available online: http://dspace.sﬁt.co.in:8004/jspui/
handle/123456789/1449 (accessed on 15 July 2021).
71. Goswami, S.S.; Behera, D.K. Evaluation of the best smartphone model in the market by integrating fuzzy-AHP and PROMETHEE
decision-making approach. Decision 2021, 48, 71–96. [CrossRef]
72. Mishra, A.R.; Singh, R.K.; Motwani, D. Intuitionistic fuzzy divergence measure-based ELECTRE method for performance of
cellular mobile telephone service providers. Neural Comput. Appl. 2020, 32, 3901–3921. [CrossRef]
73. Mishra, A.R.; Rani, P . Shapley divergence measures with VIKOR method for multi-attribute decision-making problems.Neural
Comput. Appl. 2019, 31, 1299–1316. [CrossRef]
74. Mishra, A.R.; Singh, R.K.; Motwani, D. Multi-criteria assessment of cellular mobile telephone service providers using intuitionistic
fuzzy WASPAS method with similarity measures. Granul. Comput. 2019, 4, 511–529. [CrossRef]
75. Shekhovtsov, A.; Wi˛ eckowski, J.; Kizielewicz, B.; Sałabun, W.Towards Reliable Decision-Making in the Green Urban Transport Domain;
University of Niš: Niš, Serbia, 2020. [CrossRef]
76. Sałabun, W.; Ziemba, P .; W ˛ atróbski, J. The rank reversals paradox in management decisions: The comparison of the ahp and
comet methods. In International Conference on Intelligent Decision Technologies ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2016;
pp. 181–191.

--- Page 37 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2228
77. Faizi, S.; Rashid, T.; Sałabun, W.; Zafar, S.; W ˛ atróbski, J. Decision making with uncertainty using hesitant fuzzy sets.Int. J.
Fuzzy Syst. 2018, 20, 93–103. [CrossRef]
78. Sałabun, W.; W ˛ atróbski, J.; Shekhovtsov, A. Are MCDA methods benchmarkable? A comparative study of TOPSIS, VIKOR,
COPRAS, and PROMETHEE II methods. Symmetry 2020, 12, 1549. [CrossRef]
79. García-Cascales, M.S.; Lamata, M.T. On rank reversal and TOPSIS method. Math. Comput. Model. 2012, 56, 123–132. [CrossRef]
80. Yang, W. Ingenious solution for the rank reversal problem of TOPSIS method. Math. Probl. Eng. 2020, 2020, 9676518. [CrossRef]
81. Barzilai, J.; Golany, B. AHP rank reversal, normalization and aggregation rules. INFOR Inf. Syst. Oper. Res. 1994, 32, 57–64.
[CrossRef]
82. Verly, C.; De Smet, Y. Some results about rank reversal instances in the PROMETHEE methods. Int. J. Multicriteria Decis. Mak. 71
2013, 3, 325–345. [CrossRef]
83. Liu, X.; Ma, Y. A method to analyze the rank reversal problem in the ELECTRE II method. Omega 2021, 102, 102317. [CrossRef]
84. Sałabun, W.; Piegat, A.; W ˛ atróbski, J.; Karczmarczyk, A.; Jankowski, J.The COMET Method: The First MCDA Method Completely
Resistant to Rank Reversal Paradox; European Working Group “Multiple Criteria Decision Aiding” Printemps 2019, Series 3, No. 39;
EWG-MCDA: Cracow, Poland, Spring 2019. Available online: http://www.cs.put.poznan.pl/ewgmcda/newsletter/Spr19.pdf
(accessed on 15 July 2021).
85. Piegat, A.; Sałabun, W. Identification of a multicriteria decision-making model using the characteristic objects method.Appl. Comput.
Intell. Soft Comput.2014, 2014, 536492. [CrossRef]
86. Sałabun, W. Fuzzy Multi-Criteria Decision-Making Method: The Modular Approach in the Characteristic Objects Method.
Stud. Proc. Pol. Assoc. Knowl. Manag. 2015, 77, 54–64.
87. Kizielewicz, B.; Shekhovtsov, A.; Sałabun, W. A New Approach to Eliminate Rank Reversal in the MCDA Problems. In Proceedings
of the International Conference on Computational Science, Cracow, Poland, 16–18 June 2021; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2021; pp. 338–351.
88. Jiˇ rí, M. The robustness of TOPSIS results using sensitivity analysis based on weight tuning. InWorld Congress on Medical Physics
and Biomedical Engineering 2018; Springer: Singapore, 2019; pp. 83–86.
89. Shekhovtsov, A.; Kizielewicz, B.; Sałabun, W. New Rank-Reversal Free Approach to Handle Interval Data in MCDA Prob-
lems. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Science, Cracow, Poland, 16–18 June 2021; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2021; pp. 458–472.
90. Sałabun, W.; Karczmarczyk, A.; W ˛ atróbski, J.; Jankowski, J. Handling data uncertainty in decision making with COMET.
In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence (SSCI), Bangalore, India, 18–21 November
2018; pp. 1478–1484.
91. Faizi, S.; Sałabun, W.; Rashid, T.; W ˛ atróbski, J.; Zafar, S. Group decision-making for hesitant fuzzy sets based on characteristic
objects method. Symmetry 2017, 9, 136. [CrossRef]
92. Sałabun, W.; Karczmarczyk, A.; W ˛ atróbski, J. Decision-making using the hesitant fuzzy sets COMET method: An empirical study
of the electric city buses selection. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence (SSCI),
Bangalore, India, 18–21 November 2018; pp. 1485–1492.
93. Sałabun, W. Reduction in the number of comparisons required to create matrix of expert judgment in the comet method.
Manag. Prod. Eng. Rev. 2014, 5, 62–69. [CrossRef]
94. Kizielewicz, B.; Kołodziejczyk, J. Effects of the selection of characteristic values on the accuracy of results in the COMET method.
Procedia Comput. Sci. 2020, 176, 3581–3590. [CrossRef]
95. W ˛ atróbski, J.; Sałabun, W.; Karczmarczyk, A.; Wolski, W. Sustainable decision-making using the COMET method: An empirical
study of the ammonium nitrate transport management. In Proceedings of the 2017 Federated Conference on Computer Science
and Information Systems (FedCSIS), Prague, Czech Republic, 3–6 September 2017; pp. 949–958.
96. Lai, H.; Liao, H.; Wen, Z.; Zavadskas, E.K.; Al-Barakati, A. An Improved CoCoSo Method with a Maximum Variance Optimization
Model for Cloud Service Provider Selection. Eng. Econ. 2020, 31, 411–424. [CrossRef]
97. Afshari, A.; Mojahed, M.; Yusuff, R.M. Simple additive weighting approach to personnel selection problem. Int. J. Innov.
Manag. Technol. 2010, 1, 511.
98. Zavadskas, E.K.; Turskis, Z.; Antucheviciene, J.; Zakarevicius, A. Optimization of weighted aggregated sum product assessment.
Elektron. Ir Elektrotechnika 2012, 122, 3–6. [CrossRef]
99. Zanakis, S.H.; Solomon, A.; Wishart, N.; Dublish, S. Multi-attribute decision making: A simulation comparison of select methods.
Eur. J. Oper. Res. 1998, 107, 507–529. [CrossRef]
100. Wei, J.; Lin, X. The multiple attribute decision-making VIKOR method and its application. In Proceedings of the 2008 4th
international conference on wireless communications, networking and mobile computing, Dalian, China, 12–14 October 2008;
pp. 1–4.
101. Brauers, W.K.; Zavadskas, E.K. The MOORA method and its application to privatization in a transition economy. Control Cybern.
2006, 35, 445–469.
102. Yazdani, M.; Wen, Z.; Liao, H.; Banaitis, A.; Turskis, Z. A grey combined compromise solution (CoCoSo-G) method for supplier
selection in construction management. J. Civ. Eng. Manag. 2019, 25, 858–874. [CrossRef]
103. Keshavarz Ghorabaee, M.; Zavadskas, E.K.; Olfat, L.; Turskis, Z. Multi-criteria inventory classiﬁcation using a new method of
evaluation based on distance from average solution (EDAS). Informatica 2015, 26, 435–451. [CrossRef]

--- Page 38 ---
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16 2229
104. Ghorabaee, M.K.; Zavadskas, E.K.; Amiri, M.; Turskis, Z. Extended EDAS method for fuzzy multi-criteria decision-making: An
application to supplier selection. Int. J. Comput. Commun. Control 2016, 11, 358–371. [CrossRef]
105. Pamuˇ car, D.; Mihajlovi´ c, M.; Obradovi´ c, R.; Atanaskovi´ c, P . Novel approach to group multi-criteria decision making based on
interval rough numbers: Hybrid DEMATEL-ANP-MAIRCA model. Expert Syst. Appl. 2017, 88, 58–80. [CrossRef]
106. Gigovi´ c, L.; Pamuˇ car, D.; Baji´ c, Z.; Mili´ cevi´ c, M. The combination of expert judgment and GIS-MAIRCA analysis for the selection
of sites for ammunition depots. Sustainability 2016, 8, 372. [CrossRef]
107. Pamuˇ car, D.;´Cirovi´ c, G. The selection of transport and handling resources in logistics centers using Multi-Attributive Border
Approximation area Comparison (MABAC). Expert Syst. Appl. 2015, 42, 3016–3028. [CrossRef]
108. Wei, G.; Wei, C.; Wu, J.; Wang, H. Supplier selection of medical consumption products with a probabilistic linguistic MABAC
method. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2019, 16, 5082. [CrossRef]
109. Jahan, A.; Mustapha, F.; Sapuan, S.; Ismail, M.Y.; Bahraminasab, M. A framework for weighting of criteria in ranking stage of
material selection process. Int. J. Adv. Manuf. Technol. 2012, 58, 411–420. [CrossRef]
110. Sałabun, W.; Urbaniak, K. A new coefﬁcient of rankings similarity in decision-making problems. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Computational Science, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 3–5 June 2020; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2020; pp. 632–645.
111. Shekhovtsov, A.; Sałabun, W. A comparative case study of the VIKOR and TOPSIS rankings similarity.Procedia Comput. Sci. 2020,
176, 3730–3740. [CrossRef]
112. Shekhovtsov, A.; Kozlov, V .; Nosov, V .; Sałabun, W. Efﬁciency of Methods for Determining the Relevance of Criteria in Sustainable
Transport Problems: A Comparative Case Study. Sustainability 2020, 12, 7915. [CrossRef]